My concern isn't the long run. It's the
next 3 to seven years. How do we head
towards Star Trek and not Terminator?
>> I call AI and robotics the supersonic
tsunami. We're in the singularity.
>> When is all white by color work gone?
>> Anything short of shaping atoms. AI can
do half or more of those jobs right now.
There's no onoff switch. It is coming
and accelerating. The transition will be
bumpy. You have a solution to this.
>> I don't make a bet here. Um,
>> China's done an incredible job,
>> right? I mean, it's running circles
around us. Do you imagine that the US
could make that level of investment and
commitment
>> based on current trends? Uh, China will
far exceed the rest of the world in uh
AI compute.
>> Every major CEO and economist and
government leader should be like, what
do we do?
>> We don't have any system right now to
make this go well. But AI is a critical
part of making it go well. There are
three things that I think are important.
Truth will prevent AI from going insane.
Curiosity, I think, will foster any form
of sentience. And if it has a sense of
beauty, it will be a great future. It's
going to be an awesome future.
>> Now, that's a moonshot, ladies and
gentlemen.
>> Welcome to Moonshots. Following is a
wide-ranging conversation with Elon Musk
focused on optimism and the coming age
of abundance. My moonshot mate Dave
Blondon and I flew into Austin, Texas to
meet up with Elon at his 11.5 million
square foot Gigafactory, home of the
Cybertruck and Model Y production and
the future home for 8 million square ft
of Optimus production. Elon has agreed
to do this kind of a deep dive catchup
once per year. This is hopefully the
first of many. And after having this
conversation with Elon, it's crystal
clear to me that we are living through
the singularity. All right, enjoy.
>> Yeah. Um, your relentless optimism is
always a breath of fresh air.
>> Thank you, buddy. Thank you. Well, I
want to share that tonight with a lot of
people.
>> Yeah,
>> I think they need it.
>> I hope you're right. And you might be
right. Actually, I'm increasingly
thinking that you are right.
>> Thank you.
>> Abundance for all.
>> Yeah,
>> that's the goal. Shall we?
>> Yeah.
>> All right.
>> Right now, putting a lot of time into
chips.
>> You are. You are personally.
>> Yeah.
>> It's always AI assistance, I assume.
>> What's that? with some AI assistance. I
assume that design
>> uh not enough.
>> Yeah.
>> It' be nice if we could just hand it off
to the AI.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Soon enough.
>> Yeah. I tried to do some circuit design
actually with uh AI recently. Just this
a couple weeks ago. Not not happening
yet.
>> Um
very soon though.
>> Yeah. Um I I think probably at this
point Grock if you if you took a photo
and submitted to Grock, it could
probably tell you if if the circuit is
is if there's something wrong with it.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. I'm going to give it a shot.
You're using the same Grock that I'm
using. Are you or you are
>> Grock keeps updating. So
>> yeah, 4.2, but five is soon, right?
>> Uh five is Q1.
>> Yeah.
>> Um 4.2 has not been released yet.
>> Okay. uh externally. Um but yeah, I mean
if you just if you just upload an image
into Gro um
>> it's it's does quite a good job.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> yeah,
>> of of analyzing any any given image.
>> Absolutely. Let's uh let's start. We're
going to talk about this.
>> All right. We'll come back.
>> I mean, let's see if I if I take an if I
take a picture of you, what is it? Let's
see what it
>> Yeah. What's it going to say about me?
>> Yeah, it's going to say you're a flawed
circuit. I also have to remember to
update it because like we update the
Grock app so frequently.
>> You know, I asked I asked Grock to roast
me.
>> Oh, it's does a good job.
>> It did an amazing job. Then I asked
Grock to roast you. Yes.
>> And I spit out my coffee. It was it was
hilarious. And then I asked it, you
know,
>> say be more. It just keeps telling it to
be more and more.
>> I asked I asked until until it's like
mother of God.
>> Wait, is Bad Rudy still out or did that
get repealed? Bad Rudy still there?
>> And I asked, you know, does Elon know
what you say about him? and and and she
goes, "It's a she for me." She goes,
"What is he going to do about it?"
>> What is he going to do about it?
>> Yeah, let's see. Okay.
>> Um, so I just literally took a photo of
you and see what it is.
>> Did you ask a question?
>> No, nothing. I didn't say anything.
>> This man is is hugely
>> This This is Peter Diamandis.
>> Yes.
>> So,
>> okay.
>> That's pretty good.
>> Yeah.
>> There's no context whatsoever.
>> The host of the podcast Moonshots. Yeah.
>> Uh, sometimes that's your first
credential now. That's amazing. Forget
about everything else I've done in life.
Comes back to your podcast. That was a
no no context image.
>> Yeah. By the way, Graedia is awesome.
>> Okay, great.
>> I mean, just phenomenal.
>> I mean, just it's like I tried to like
update my Wikipedia page for like years
impossibly
>> and um Yeah, it it it knows me.
>> Amazing.
>> Yeah. Um, he's wearing a black quilted
jacket featuring a Sundance logo.
>> Not quite true. It's my abundance logo,
but I guess a little wrinkled. See the
>> Can it see it?
>> I I I think so.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> Anyway,
>> um Yeah, but it basically
uh it's pretty damn good.
>> Yeah.
>> Um he's smiling and relaxed with a
laptop in front of him.
>> That's true.
>> Yeah, that's true.
Um,
>> yeah.
>> Well, I should say quite a circuit
though.
>> You got to test it on the
>> roast him.
>> Only It has to be read by you, though.
>> I mean, I won't read the whole thing,
but
>> All right. Give me Give me a taste. I
can take it.
>> Okay. Check out that grin. Dude smiling
like he just discovered a new way to
monetize hope.
>> Monetizing hope. Oh, that's
>> I want to try and answer the question,
can AI and tech help save America and
the world? Right. Um, I want to give
people listening a dose of optimism.
There's a survey done in mid December by
Pew that said 45% of Americans would
rather live in the past and only 14%
said they'd rather live in the future,
which is insane to me, right? Um,
obviously they never read history. The
challenge is most Americans all they
have of the future. It's like Hollywood
has shown us killer AIs and rogue
robots, right? And people are worried
about their jobs. They're worried about
healthcare. They're worried about, you
know, the cost of living. The challenge
is how do we how do we help people? I
mean, you posted, you pinned on X, the
future is going to be amazing with AI
and robots enabling sustainable
abundance.
>> I think of you when I did that.
>> Thank you. I appreciate that. and and uh
>> well I mean
>> it's like what would Peter do you want
to say?
>> Yeah was channeling you.
>> Thank you. Thank I couldn't agree more.
I didn't agree more either.
>> That's great.
>> So so my question is from a you know
from a first principle standpoint
>> right
>> uh the rationale for optimism you know
how do we how do we head towards Star
Trek and not Terminator right? How do we
how do we head towards
>> Ronberry not Cameron. Yeah,
Jim. Jim, I will I will
>> the diverging path meme.
>> Yes, it is. It is. Uh, Avatar has some
hopeful parts, but anyway,
>> I how do we go towards universal high
income instead of social unrest? So, my
>> both
want socialrest.
>> So,
have universal high income and social
unrest. M
>> that's my prediction.
>> Oh, that will make for a lot of
problems.
>> Is that your actual prediction?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, it seems likely.
>> Like tell me to push back on it.
>> Yeah, exactly. But it seems like that's
the trend.
>> Yeah. Yeah, totally. No, we have
>> Well, because there's going to be so
much change.
>> Yeah, there's people are going to be
like scared shitless.
>> Yeah, it's it's sort of the um
you know um it's like be careful what
you wish for because you might get it.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Now, if if you if you actually get all
the stuff you want, is that actually the
future you want?
>> Yeah.
>> Um because it means that your job won't
be what matter
>> if you're living an unchallenged life.
>> Yes.
>> Right. With no challenges.
>> Yeah.
>> No. You know, you know, if you become a
couch potato, if it's the Wall-E future,
that does not go well for humans.
>> Well, and we're used to being told,
here's your challenge. Yeah.
>> So people haven't historically been very
good at creating their own challenge in
the absence of
>> I think Elon does a damn good job. Every
time you every time one company takes
off, you start your next.
>> Oh, that's that's rare for punishment.
>> I think you are. I think you overthank
God for that.
>> So So what so
>> why do I do this to myself?
>> Actually, after AI and robots, is there
another thing after that? I guess
there's
>> Well, there's there's conquering, you
know, the universe.
>> Yeah, that there is that
>> rocks really.
>> Well,
and energy
>> rocks are your friends.
>> Conquering
>> We didn't even get there.
>> Why, Elon? Why are you so optimistic?
>> Are you Are you optimistic? Let's start
there.
>> I'm not as optimistic as you are.
>> Okay.
>> Um but why are you optimist?
>> I'm more optimistic than most people.
>> Okay.
>> Um
>> and is the trend upward
compared to a year ago, two years ago?
Well, I I think if you reframe things in
terms of
um progress bar, like speaking of
challenges,
>> yeah,
>> uh progress towards a cartev 2 scale
civilization.
>> Sure.
>> Um well, let's say let's say the
aspiration
>> capturing all the energy from the sun's
output.
>> Well, let's even have a a humbler
humbler aspiration than that. If we say
that our goal is to even get a millionth
of the sun's energy,
>> that would be more than a thousand times
as much energy as could possibly be
produced on Earth.
>> So about a half a billionth of the sun's
energy reaches Earth. Um so you'd have
to go up three orders of magnitude from
that uh just to get to a millionth.
>> Yeah.
Um,
so
we're very very very far from even h
having a billionth of the sun's energy
uh harnessed in any way. So a reasonable
goal would be try to get to a millionth.
And if you try to get to a millionth or
or a thousandth um you know 0.1%.
Uh
that's that's such an enormous
uh there's not sure what metaphor we'd
use here because a hill to climb is is
not a
>> inapprop like not a big enough metaphor
but
>> gravity well to escape
>> engineer hell of a gravity well.
Exactly. Um so if if you try to get to a
millionth of the sun's energy or a
thousandth the sun's energy like now the
these are very very difficult tasks
>> and energy is the inner loop for
everything right now.
>> Yeah. I I think like I I think uh the
future currency will essentially just be
wattage.
>> Yeah. I was thinking is it is it d is
the ability of a person to control
energy and compute
>> or just energy? I mean the two translate
obviously
>> just like harnessed energy.
>> Yeah.
>> Like so or like basically how much power
is being turned into work of some kind,
>> right?
>> Um
intelligence or
um matter manipulation. Um,
>> so that's your next big project is going
to be energy.
>> It's it's going to be you're going to go
back to your solar your solar system.
>> You can expand from there and say, okay,
>> what about even getting somewhere on a
on a cottage of three scale, meaning
galaxy level.
>> Now you're talking now. Now we're back
to Star Trek.
>> Yeah. Expand horizons here.
>> Yes.
>> Where there isn't even a horizon because
you're not on a planet.
>> So we we talk about
>> So So think galaxy mind.
>> Yeah.
Well, listen, we're in 11 11.5 million
square foot, three pentagons right here
in this building. I mean, you think in a
reasonably large scale,
>> what is the magnitude?
>> Yeah.
>> Um, so I mean, so from a challenge
standpoint, I guess
the civil the civilizational challenge
will be how do you climb the orders of
magnitude?
>> Yeah.
>> And energy harnessed.
>> But we're going back to why are you
optimistic right now? I mean, when
people think about uh the challenges
ahead, I think we're going to end up
with abundance in the long run, it's for
me
>> beyond abundance in any beyond what
people possibly could think of as
abundance. Um like the AI actually
AI and robots the limit um will will
saturate all human desire.
>> And then we get to nanotechnology which
takes it even a step further.
Um the thing about the well I'm not sure
what you mean by nano you mean like
little nanobots
>> atomic reassembly.
>> Yeah. For health.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Sure. Sure. Um I mean
we're already doing atomic level
assembly on the for circuits you know.
>> Amazing.
>> Um
>> two three nanometers.
>> Yeah. It's it's only um depending on how
they're arrayed four or five silicon
atoms per nanometer.
>> Yeah.
>> So
>> those are big atoms though.
>> They're not bigish. They're not your
little I mean but but I'm just saying
you could they should actually describe
the circuits in terms of an integer
number of atoms in a specific place.
>> They should it's all angstroms now but
>> you could you can just it's just inte
it's it's like we'll call this the the
seven atom you know whatever like you
say two two nanometers it's like it's
like
>> no one knows
>> nine silicon atoms something like that.
Um they've got silicon and copper and um
you know so but a bunch of these things
are just marketing numbers like the two
nanometer is just a marketing number.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Um but but it's you still need
essentially close to atomic level
precision. Like the atoms really need to
be in the right spot.
>> Um so um
I think they're getting clean rooms
wrong by the way in these modern fabs.
Um
I'm going to I'm going to make a bet
here. Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Um that Tesla will have a 2nmter fab and
I can I can eat a cheeseburger and smoke
a cigar in the fab.
>> Oh, come on.
>> Yes.
>> The air handling will be that good.
>> Do you have this sketched out in your
mind? Like how is it how are the atoms
being placed that they're immune to uh
cheeseburger grease? They just maintain
wafer isolation the entire time. um
which is actually the default for for
fabs. The the wafers are transported um
in boxes of pure nitrogen gas under a
slight positive.
>> So are the bananas at Walmart. I
>> just so you know.
>> Yeah. Well, that's that's it's inite
essentially like it's pretty hard for
anything that's combusting
>> uh to live without oxygen.
>> Yep.
>> So um
>> let's talk about
>> So like like you can kill the bugs just
by putting a nitrogen blanket on plants.
>> Yeah. Interesting.
>> I want to talk about uh energy, health,
education because those are people's,
you know, concerns. So, on the energy
front,
>> um the innermost loop of everything that
you're building and doing right now,
>> energy is the foundation.
>> What's your vision for energy abundance?
Uh
>> the sun
>> in in in the next, you know, this this
this decade. The sun. Yeah. I mean, so
>> the sun is everything.
>> It's everything. So, you're all in on
solar.
>> I mean,
>> uh Yeah. I mean your natural gas natural
gas and solar you're at Colossus 2,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> People just don't understand how
>> that that solar is everything. So um
everything compared to the sun, all
other energy sources are like uh cavemen
throwing some twigs into a fire.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so the the sun is over 99.8%
of all mass in the solar system. Uh
Jupiter is around uh.1% of the mass. Uh
so even if you burnt Jupiter, the energy
produced by the sun would still round up
to 100%.
>> Yeah.
>> Mhm.
>> And then if you teleported three more
Jupiters into our solar system and burnt
them too,
>> it would still round up.
>> It still the sun still rounds up to 100%
of energy.
>> Any interest in fusion?
>> I mean like fusion on a planet fusion.
You know what? You know coming a mile
away.
>> You're not never going to guess how the
sun works.
>> Giant coal plants.
>> I mean, we have a giant fus free fusion
reactor that shows up every day
>> 93 million miles away.
>> It's farical for us to create little
fusion reactors. Um
I mean that would be like, you know,
having a tiny ice cube maker in the
Antarctic.
and say, "Hey, look, we made ice." I'm
like, "Congratulations.
You're in the [ __ ] Antarctic."
>> So, totally totally with you on this.
>> It's like
3 kilometer high glaciers right next to
you.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. If you just narrow the question to
the Memphis timeline. So, Memphis data
center timeline between a gigawatt and
10 gig. You're not going to you're not
going to pull 10 gigawatts out of
Memphis. Um maybe you are
>> two or three.
>> Two or three. Okay. So So there's still
a gap between there and the next
whatever you just just draw. So and
they're not in space yet at that point.
>> So we're still in toy land here. Uh for
on toy land you
>> toy land. Toyland
>> 10 gigawatt.
>> You know what's amazing is there's 100
megawatts right outside the door here
>> and it's massive. Yeah.
>> It's it's enormous. And it uses more
energy
>> than everything. All these manufacturing
lines combined use less energy than
that.
>> I think but we're talking about a
longgo. Cortex one was
>> the the third largest training cluster
in the in the world.
>> Yeah.
>> For for doing coherent training.
>> You're falling behind.
>> Uh well, we have Cortex 2 that's being
built out. Um
>> that'll be uh half a gigawatt uh and
operational middle of next year. Mhm.
Uh,
>> hey everybody. You may not know this,
but I've got an incredible research
team. And every week myself, my research
team study the metat trends that are
impacting the world. Topics like
computation, sensors, networks, AI,
robotics, 3D printing, synthetic
biology. And these meta trend reports I
put out once a week enable you to see
the future 10 years ahead of anybody
else. If you'd like to get access to the
Metatrends newsletter every week, go to
dmandis.com/tatrens.
That's damandis.com/metatrends.
So going back to what Dave is saying
over the next five years, what are you
scaling on energy front? Do
>> I mean
>> five years is a long time.
>> I mean energy I mean China has done an
incredible job.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. I mean it's running circles
around us.
>> Uh China has done an incredible job on
solar.
>> Yeah.
>> It's amazing.
So I I believe China's uh production
capacity is around 1500 gawatts per year
of solar.
>> Yeah. They put in 500 terowatts in the
last year
>> terowatt hours. Yeah. Terowatt hours
like 500 500 terowatt hours to be very
specific
>> in the last year. 70% of that was solar
and they're just scaling.
>> Do do you do you imagine that
>> solar scales? Do you imagine that the US
could make that level of investment and
commitment? I mean because people are
worried about their energy bills going
up with no no data centers in our
backyard. How do we provide I mean
energy energy is equivalent to is
equivalent to cost of you know cost of
living. It's equivalent to health. It's
equivalent to clean water. You know the
higher energy uh production of a country
the higher its GDP. Um energy is
important. So what should what do we do
to scale that way? Do we do it in solar
here?
>> Um I think we should scale solar
substantially in the US. Um
um Tesla and SpaceX are scaling solar.
Um
so uh and I encourage others to do so as
well. M
>> um so the the uh
I mean I've said the stuff you know
publicly um I do see a path to 100
gawatts a year of of space solar sort of
a AI powered solar powered AI
satellites.
>> Yes 100 gawatts a year of solar powered
AI satellites.
>> I did the math on that. Uh, that's like
500,000
Starlink V3s launched over 8,000
Starship flights. That's one every hour
for a year. Um, yeah,
we 10,000 flights a year is is a
reasonable number. Um, so
>> it's amazing. It's quite the scale.
Well, what's what's the really rough
timeline on that because I mean by
aircraft standards that's a small
number.
>> Sure. In terms of flights. Yeah, for
sure.
>> Yeah, that's uh that's that's that's a
small f like so just like depends what
you compare it to. If you compare it to
the rest of the rocket industry, it's a
very high number.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> and we're talking about a million tons
of payload to orbit per year. So if you
do if you do a million tons of payload
or orbit per year with 100 kilowatts per
ton, uh that's 100 gawatt of solar
powered AI satellites um per year.
>> Yeah. Um I mean there's a there's a path
to get probably to a terowatt per year
um
>> from from the from
if you say like uh 10 you want you want
to go up another order of magnitude or
let's say you want to go to 100
terowatts a year.
>> Yeah.
>> Which obviously kind of nutty numbers.
>> Uh then you want to make those uh AI
satellites on the moon.
>> Yes.
>> And use a mass driver. Yeah. So, the
Gerard K. O'Neal approach.
>> Well, like Robert Heinland was a harsh
course. Pretty much. Yeah. I love that
book.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's a sort of libertarian
paradise on the
>> um
uh Yeah. So, cuz on the moon you can
just accelerate the satellites into
to escape velocity is around 2500 meters
per second. Um and uh there's no
atmosphere. So, like a mass driver works
very well on the moon. Can I ask the the
question about orbital debris? I mean,
we're we're building effectively a
Dysonish swarm around the Earth.
>> Um,
eat it for lunch.
>> Uh, are you worried about over
congestion on the uh
that's going to be a Sunsync orbit's
going to fill very quickly.
>> I mean, you can you you don't have to
have sunsync. I mean, you can uh
>> don't have to, but it's optimal.
>> Yeah. Um
there's some pros and cons to to sunsync
or not sunsync. Um
I mean, your your payload to orbit drops
by like 30% compared to, you know, if
you were just went to um like mid-
inclination like 70° or something like
that.
>> Yeah. I mean, do we need an orbital
debris x-prise at this point? We need
some way to get the the satellites
>> um
>> defunct satellites down. Do we pass
rules that require them to de-orbit on
their own?
>> Yeah. At the point at which you you can
put a million tons of satellites into
orbit, you can also, you know, start
bringing down satellites, too. Yeah.
>> Um or at least collecting them into a
known into a fixed location so they're
not like all over the place.
>> Yeah. and then you can reuse them.
>> Yeah. Um let's just say that we'll have
so the the resource level will be so
high that that I believe this will be a
solved problem given the amount of
intelligence we're talking about here.
>> Oh
>> um like the intelligence will be quite
interested in preserving itself.
>> Yes. That's true.
>> Oh
>> interesting.
>> Yeah. Good motivation.
>> Yeah.
>> Interesting.
>> The question is the data centers will
not be in low earth orbit, right?
They'll be they'll be much higher
constantly in the sun. They're not going
to be in the traffic jam, I assume.
>> Uh, well, you can get to, you know, you
don't have to get to get to constant
sunlight. You can be around 1,200
kilometers on synchronous will give you
constant sunlight.
>> Mhm.
>> Um,
>> but you could you could place him in
multiple orbits.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. No, I think if there's an X- prize
for cleaning up, it's got to be there's
only going to be clutter in low Earth
orbit. I mean debris from
>> anything anything that's if it's a you
know below around 7 or 800 kilometers
the atmosphere will atmospheric drag
will bring it back.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so like for Starlink there's a dual
benefit of being
uh like as low as possible because uh
your your your beam you you know your
beams are tighter. you know, you're
basically that you have less latency and
and your your your beams are smaller if
you're you're closer to the earth. So,
uh like Starling 3 will be around 330 to
350 km,
>> which is quite a lot of drag. Uh so,
it's basically constantly thrusting to
>> I still remember when you proposed
Starlink and everybody else in the
industry was like, "No way. No way. He's
not going to get the spectrum. He's not
going to be able to do this." Um
>> yeah,
>> it's uh it's kind of worked.
>> Yeah, we're the stalling team have done
an incredible job.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> I mean we've basically rebuilt the
internet in space with with a laser
links.
>> Mhm.
>> So there's uh 9,000 satellites up there
right now.
>> Do you think the government's going to
be able to handle the kind of licensing
of the volume of satellites that you
want to put up? I mean, will there be
push back cuz you know, China's going to
put up their own constellations.
Uh Europe, who knows whether Europe will
ever step up?
>> They won't.
>> What's that? They won't. No.
>> And there's probably
>> Yeah.
>> Nothing that nothing they're doing h has
success in the set of possible outcomes.
>> Yeah.
>> I just got back from Rome. I don't want
to touch touch that railing.
>> Successes are on the set of possible
outcomes.
No, the chart of outcomes though
>> the chart that shows the number of
billion dollar startups in the US versus
Europe.
>> Have you seen that graphic?
>> Oh my god, it's crazy.
>> Yeah. And data centers too. It's
actually um
>> no one was talking about orbital data
centers six months ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Nobody. And then all of a sudden
>> Sundire's on it.
>> You're you're out with it. And
>> it's the hot new thing
>> and it is what what what tip what
happened? What happened that every
company is now talking about orbital
data centers?
>> I guess it went viral and X.
>> It did.
>> I don't know. Is every company talking
about
>> Oh, yeah. Everybody's got their own
orbital data center.
>> For sure. And I I was suggesting to
Peter that that you updated the math on
launch costs and that it's a tipping
point very quickly with the updated
math.
>> But Starship's been the cost for you
know, I don't know what you hold $100
per kilogram, $10 per kilogram. What do
you have Starship at? It's possible that
Elon said that and nobody believed it
until now.
>> No,
>> you can go back and look at my what even
back when it was Twitter uh the my old
tweets. I I said these things se many
years ago.
>> 100 bucks or 10 bucks a a kilogram.
>> Yeah. And I said this is we're we're
going to do a million tons a year to
orbit.
Um
Yeah. And and we've got to get the the
cost down.
>> Yeah. uh well below $100 a kilogram.
>> So that's going to move the data centers
to orbit.
>> It will. It's they can do you can
basically do the math like if you've got
a fully reusable rocket.
>> Yeah.
>> Um which is fully and rapidly reusable
like an aircraft. Uh then this is an
incredibly this is a very difficult
thing to do obviously. U I I think it's
at the limit of human intelligence to
create a fully and rapidly reusable
rocket.
>> Um
>> but it is possible and we're doing it
with Starship. It's It's been the holy
grail in the aerospace industry forever.
>> Yeah. Quest for the holy grail rocket.
>> Yeah.
>> And then I pretty much it is I mean
right the DCX was the first little
things that were trying there and uh
it's been you know all of I mean back
when I was in the space industry that's
all everyone ever spoke about. And then
when Falcon 9 first reused its first
stage, um I mean all the traditional
aerospace industries did not believe
that even Falcon 9 could re could could
fly and reuse.
>> Literally you can come see it land at
Cape Canaveral.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and then take off again.
>> So I don't know how you would not
believe a thing that you can see with
your own eyes.
>> Yeah. Well, they didn't believe you
could. They didn't believe you could.
>> But the the the la the leap from there
to the launch cost actually requires
more faith than just just that. But I
think I think Starship is the launch
cost tipping point and that somewhere in
that you know before you had Twitter it
became X somewhere in that timeline it
went from speculative to no doubt and I
don't know if that's a smooth line or a
couple of good launches in between but I
suspect that the data centers in space
>> but people
>> ties directly to the credibility
>> is not thinking about orbital data
centers they're thinking about energy
and the cost of energy here on here in
their hometown and sort of the the
there's a lot of doomer
conversations out there. The data
centers are going to drive, you know,
the CPI up.
>> Uh
they're not entirely wrong.
>> Okay. So, what is so what is the what's
the energy solution here on Earth for uh
the rest of humanity or the the non data
the non AIs?
>> Oh, there's something other than data
center use uses of energy. Okay.
>> Interesting.
>> Um
>> that's complex. Well, the the the best
way to actually increase the energy
output per year of the United States or
any country is batteries. Um, so the
>> sure
>> peak power output of the of the US is
around 1.1 terowatts, but the uh average
power usage is only half a terowatt.
>> Yeah. So if you just buffer the the
energy, so charge up the the batteries
at night, discharge during the day, um
without incremental capital expend
without incremental capital
expenditures, without building new power
plants, you can double the energy
throughput of the US. The energy output
per year can double
>> with batteries. Um
>> and do we have those batteries uh in
development?
>> Uh yeah, Tesla makes them.
>> Okay. So you think current the current
current Tesla battery packs?
>> What do you think? What do you think? I
literally have I I went on stage and
presented the thing.
>> Yeah,
>> that's that's the dead giveaway. So
>> I I even went to installations of the
mega packs, you know, and there's
>> So why don't people do this?
>> It's on the internet. So
>> yeah.
>> So is do you think
>> they are? And and China, by the way, is
like it seems like China listens to
everything I say I say and does does it
basically or at least or or they're just
doing it independently. I don't know.
But they're they're certainly making um
massive battery packs like
really massive battery pack output.
They're they're you know making vast
numbers of electric cars. Yeah.
>> Uh vast amounts of solar. Um,
>> I don't know. These are all things I I
said, you know, we should do here.
>> Fundamental. Sure. When I fly over Santa
Monica and LA, when I'm when I'm I'm
piloting and I look down, they're like,
zero roofs have solar on them.
>> Zero roofs.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean,
>> it's not essential to have them on a
roof.
>> Okay. But it's a convenient place to
have them.
>> Yes. Uh, but the surface area of roofs
is uh I'm not saying it shouldn't, but
it's
>> uh Tesla makes a solar roof, which is
the the only solar roof that isn't ugly.
Um, our solar roof actually looks
beautiful.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
but if you want to do solar at scale,
you just need more surface area.
>> So, so we we we have um vast empty
deserts. Sure. African America like if
you fly from LA to New York or just fly
across country and you look down um for
a large portion of the time you look
down it is bleak desert.
>> Yes.
>> It looks like Mars essentially.
>> We're not worried about overpopulation
there.
>> No, I mean it look there's barely a
lizard alive in these scorching deserts,
you know. Yep.
>> It's not like farmland we're talking
about. We're just talking about Yep.
>> Uh places that look like Mars,
>> like just uh scorched rock.
So if we put soil where we currently
have scorched rock,
>> I think this will be a quality of life
improvement for the lizards or the few
creatures that live in this
>> uh very difficult environment.
>> Do we have the distribution network?
>> It's like this is going to be thank god
some shade finally.
>> Do we have the distribution network to
be able to do that? Yeah, you need to to
materially affect quality of life, you
need to capture and store what a couple
hundred gigawatts.
>> Is that in realistic?
>> You could just put the data center I
guess locally there.
>> Well, we already covered data centers.
>> We're talking about you know the other
>> Yeah.
>> Like I I don't know like in an abundant
world five years from now, massive
amounts of compute,
>> massive, you know, universal high
income.
>> I don't know income like universal you
can have whatever you want income.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's that's really what it
amounts to.
>> But in that world, uh, you know, other
than compute energy, how much more
energy do we need like 30 40 50% or I
don't know, unless we want to move
mountains around to make a ski mountain,
you know, in the backyard.
Um, I think the vast majority of energy
consumption will go into compute. And
then there may be use cases I'm not
thinking of like you know the well you
know right here is a nice case study
because manufacturing every one of these
cars coming out at the rate of one every
minute or two uh is less energy than the
data center that's training the cars to
drive to to self-drive.
>> Yes.
>> So that's a good little case study. And
we don't need that much more physical
energy for abundant happiness. We need
more compute energy. Well, yeah,
>> the sun is just generating vast amounts
of energy uh all the time for free that
goes just goes into space.
>> So, um I think we'll end up trying to
capture I don't know uh a millionth of
like a millionth a thousandth of the
sun's energy. Um, we're currently I'm
not sure the exact number, but we're
I don't know, we're probably at 1%ish of
Kadeshv level one.
>> Fair enough. Yeah, I I I would guess
that even that's high.
>> I'm just Yeah, saying
>> we have a long way to go.
>> I'm that's being optimistic. Like
hopefully we're not.1%, but I don't
think we're 10%. I'm just trying to get
it to like to an order of magnitude. Uh
>> so pull it like we're roughly 1% of the
apparently using 1% of the energy that
we could use on Earth.
>> I think the bottom line from a first
principles thinking for the public is
there's a lot of energy out there
>> a lot
>> and it we have it in the US. We have it
on the planet and it needs to be
captured and the tech to capture it
>> is here and improving every year.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. um there's not going to be some
energy crisis. I there'll be a large
forcing function to harness more energy,
but we're not going to run out of it.
>> All right, I want to talk about
education.
So, here's the numbers. They're abysmal.
>> Um I mean, they're they're they're
abysmal, right? Okay. Uh the importance
of college in the United States, uh back
in 2010, 75% of Americans said it's
important to go to college. That number
is now down at 35%. All right. Uh,
college graduates as a group turn out to
be the group that's out of work the
longest,
>> right? And the but still and tuition has
increased 900% since 1983.
Um,
>> yeah, the administrative expenses at
universities have gotten out of control.
Yeah.
>> Um, so
>> I think I saw some stat that like
there's one administrator for every two
students at Brown or something like that
>> and I'm like this seems uh little high.
>> Yeah. You know what?
>> They should teach something.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> What was your college journey?
>> Um, I went to college in Canada for a
couple years at Queens University.
Uh-huh.
>> Um, so, uh, I I had Canadian citizenship
through my mom who was born in Canada
and my my grandfather was actually
American, but for some reason, I don't
know, my mom couldn't get US
citizenship, so but she was born in
Canada, so I got Canadian citizenship.
Um, and uh, I didn't have any money, so
I could only go to Canadian university
at first. I
>> mean, people forget that about you. You
didn't have this giant social network or
huge amount of wealth coming into all of
this.
>> No.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, no. I I arrived in Montreal at age
17 with I think around $2,500 in
Canadian travelers checks back when
travelers checks were a thing.
>> Um and um one bag of books and one bag
of clothes. That was my starting point.
That was my spawning point in North
America. Um,
>> and then so I went to Queens University
for a couple years and then uh
University of Pennsylvania uh did a dual
degree in physics and economics um
>> and graduated
>> uh undergraduate at UPUP
Wharton.
>> Yeah. And then um I came out to do uh I
was going to do a PhD at Stanford
working on uh energy storage
technologies for electric vehicles
essentially material science I guess
fundamentally
>> um the the idea that I had was it was to
try to create a capacitor with enough
energy density that you could get um
high range in an electric car.
>> It's funny I invested in an ultra
capacitor company and didn't Yeah.
didn't go well. Well, it's one of those
things where, you know, you could
definitely get a PhD, but it wasn't
clear that you could make a company or
do something useful like this. Most PhD
is un hat I mean, hate it, but most PhDs
do not
>> turn into something that's going to
>> do not turn into something useful. Like
you you could add a leaf to the tree of
knowledge, but it's not necessar
necessarily a useful leaf. enormous
fraction of of great entrepreneurs are
dropping out
>> of grad school or undergrad. But now
nowadays the sense of urgency is off the
charts.
>> I mean they're popping out everywhere.
>> Yeah. Because you know don't waste your
time going into grad school. Start a
company.
>> Yeah.
>> Curriculum is nowhere near caught up to
what's actually going on in technology
and I don't have time and all the time.
It's like
>> you know this is the moment. I I think
right now it's like it's unclear to me
why someone would somebody would be in
college right now unless they want the
social experience.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean if you have the ability to go and
build something. So the question is how
would you redesign the educational
program if I could be so so blunt as to
create more Elon Musks? If we want to
create an Elon Musk factory of people
who start with very little but are able
to drive uh and drive breakthroughs.
What's involved there?
What drove you?
>> Uh curiosity um about the nature of the
universe.
>> So I'm just curious about uh
>> the meaning of life and
>> you know what is this reality that we
live in. So,
>> how early?
>> My son Dax wanted to know what was it
like for you in middle school and high
school.
>> He's 14 years old. He's in that age
range now.
>> Well, I did I found school to be quite
painful. Uh and it was very boring and
in South Africa it was very violent.
>> So So it's like it was it it was like uh
>> it's like that was like that book Enders
Game.
>> Yes. Um but in real IRL
>> in this game IRL there's like but not as
fun.
>> Um
>> so your goal was escape.
>> Yes.
>> Do you think
>> escape from the the prison?
>> So that's a question I have. Do you do
you think that
>> it was miserable?
>> Do you think most successful people have
had a lot of hardship early in life? Do
you need to have that level of hardship?
>> Probably need a little bit of hardship I
suppose.
>> Yeah. But and then so it's always tricky
like what are you supposed to do with
your kids? You know, create artificial
adversity. Put them in.
>> That's cool.
>> You got an answer. That's that's a
Warren Buffett topic actually.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, you do.
>> But seriously,
>> it's not easy to create artificial
adversity because if you love your kids,
you don't want to do that. So
>> that's for sure.
>> So I had a lot of adversity. Um probably
it was good. Uh probably, you know,
helped somewhat, I suppose. One one of
the
>> What doesn't kill you makes you stronger
type of thing.
>> No,
>> at least I didn't lose a limb. And I
think what doesn't maim you
>> good at maming
10 fingers.
>> Can you modify that a little bit?
>> Yeah.
>> Can I ask you a question?
>> You makes you stronger.
>> I uh for the last 5 years I've been
helping teach this class, Foundations of
AI Ventures at MIT. And every year when
you survey the students, they go up a
lot in their desire to start a company.
And so it's now up to 80%. The incoming
>> everyone's just going to it's it's just
going to be like one person company.
>> Well, that's with AI that's that's
viable, I guess. But no, they want to
co-ound. They Yeah, they don't want to
be the founder. They want to be part of
a founding team. So, it still works out.
>> But, uh, when Peter and I were in school
at MIT, it was I'm guessing maybe 10%.
and they all wanted to be PhDs
>> and and they've been doing the survey
everyone who wanted to start. I mean I I
>> I don't remember any conversations about
with people saying they wanted to start
>> even at Stanford at the time.
>> Um I I I actually um a few days into the
semester or I should say the quarter um
I I called Bill Nicks who was the head
of material science department and said
I' I'd like to just put it on deferment.
He said, "Is my class that bad?"
>> No. And he he said he said that's he
said that's okay. You can put it on
deferment. But he said this is probably
the last conversation we'll have. And he
was right.
>> Um but then last I think it was last
year he sent me a letter saying that all
of my predictions about lithium-ion
batteries came true.
>> It was very nice.
>> And did he also say you can still come
back and finish your PhD?
>> Yeah. No. Several times Stanford has
said that I can come back for free.
Well, so you know what happened at MIT
is every time so I did not know it
>> be a great use of your time.
>> Exactly. I'm like
>> so every time an Iron Man movie came
out,
>> it notched up another probably 10% or
so.
>> Okay.
>> Uh in terms of because everybody wanted
to be Tony Stark.
>> And so that's the image. And I didn't
know till today that the new Tony Stark,
the modern Iron Man Tony Stark, I always
thought Tony Stark was modeled on
Charles Stark Draper and Howard Hughes.
is Charles Stark Draper's education and
his you know scientific endeavors
married with Howard Hughes's ambition
>> and that created the original character
but then when Robert Downey Jr. wanted
to reinvent it.
>> Yeah, it came.
>> It's modeled on Elon.
>> Yeah,
>> he came and met with me.
>> This is a Groipedia fact.
>> All right.
>> Uh yeah, fantastic.
>> Um
>> yeah, they came to John Fabro and and
Robert
>> I like the name Grock. I would like
Jarvis as well.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Um
>> probably some some trade.
>> At some point if Grock gets good enough,
we're going to call it Encyclopedia
Galactica.
>> Yes, that's nice.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, of course. 42.
>> Thank you. Um, so going back to
education, uh, should colleges, I guess
the social experience, you said is
important there, but what would you do
for education, uh, you know, middle,
high school? You just came back from a
announcement with President Blly, uh,
who's a friend. I I think he's an
amazing amazing visionary. Yeah.
Incredible what he did with his nation.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Um,
>> remarkable.
>> Remarkable and gutsy.
>> Yeah. I was like, "How are you still
alive?" That was
>> Yeah. I mean, I It was like It's the
nuclear It was a nuclear option,
>> right? Shut him down. I mean, do you
know how besides putting everybody with
a gang sign um in in uh in jail? I don't
know if you know the second thing he
did. He went to all of the graves of all
the gang members out there and destroyed
the graves and said, "Your memory will
not be remembered in this nation."
That's just badass.
>> And it worked.
>> I mean, you have to be badass
[ __ ] to take on all the knocker
gangs and win
>> and live.
>> Yeah. And still be alive.
>> And live. He's got a great great uh
guard at his palace there. But what what
did you announce with uh with him in El
Salvador?
>> Uh it was just uh basically to use Grock
for uh education like personalization.
>> Hopefully not the vulgar version of it.
>> Yeah. we would have like you know the
you know kids friendly version of Grock.
>> Uh but but obviously AI can be an in an
individualized teacher.
>> Yeah.
>> Um that uh is infinitely patient and
answers all your questions.
>> Um now you still need to be curious um
and and uh
you still need to want to learn. You
know GR can't make you want to learn. It
can make learning more interesting. you
could probably gify and incentivize it,
right?
>> You can make learning more interesting.
Um,
and and less of a production line. Um,
so
but kids do need to have to if they need
to want to learn, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you and like the people should just
think of the the brain as a biological
computer.
>> It's a neural net.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it's a bi biological
computer with
you know so with a number of neurons and
a neural efficiency.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and um
so so what like what you can't do is
tune any arbitrary kid into Einstein. Uh
this is not realistic because Einstein
had a very good meat computer like an
outstanding meat computer.
>> Um so you can't just uh do Shakespeare
Newton you know Einstein type of thing.
um unless the meat computer is uh an
exceptional one.
>> So what do you think? So when people say
we need to solve education in the United
States
>> um because it's fundamentally broken u I
think what's really broken I'm curious
is the old uh social contract that says
uh do well in high school, get in a good
college, get a degree, and then get a
job. And I don't know that that's going
to be valid in the future.
Uh my we talk about this on the pod a
lot that the that the career of the
future isn't getting a job. It's being
an entrepreneur. It's finding a problem
and solving it.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you do you agree with that?
>> Right now I'd say people should just you
know go to school for the social
experience,
use more AI.
Um
the conventional schooling experience I
think could be a lot better. um the what
what we're going to do in Al Salvador
and hopefully other places just have
individualized teachers that's going to
be much better and you you could go to
you could go to a school with a bunch of
other kids I guess if you want to hang
out with other kids but you don't need
to
>> right
>> you could do it on your phone at home
um so that's why I say like at this
point education is a social experience
when I talk to my kids who are in in
college
>> uh they they they do recognize that they
can learn um just as much independently.
In fact, that they would learn more in
in a work situation.
>> Yeah.
>> Um they're there for the social
experience and to be a bunch around a
bunch of people of their their own age.
Um
sort of a coming of age social
experience.
>> Sure. Sure. Being on your own uh
learning how how to lead or defend
yourself as the case may be.
>> Well, yeah. Yeah, I mean, if you join
the workforce, you're, you know, from
the perspective of like a, you know,
19-year-old, you with a bunch of old
people,
and if you're doing engineering with a
bunch of middle-aged dudes, it's like,
do you really want to do that or do you
want to hang out with um, you know,
where there's at least some girls your
age
type of thing.
>> I I want to get I want to get I want to
get back to this when we talk about
>> a lot of other choices. Actually,
>> I want to get back as we get to
universal high income, but I want to
talk about health and longevity one
second. US is the number one ranked
number one in health expenses worldwide
and it's ranked 70th
>> in health span,
>> right? We
>> are really 70th.
>> 70th
>> is that from Is that accurate?
>> Is why everybody listen it?
>> Uh I think it would be better than 70th
>> for health span.
>> Um well, whatever. It's it is like we
just get fat or something.
>> We're not the top 10.
>> Maybe a Zic can help us plan the
rankings there.
>> Um, so
>> would you just run around? We need
Cupid. But a Zic.
>> Mjaro Cupid.
>> But but I think that's a big reason.
It's like if people get really fat then
their their health gets bad.
>> Yeah. Well, if they don't have any
exercise, health get bad. or if they
donuts for breakfast every morning. You
still doing that?
>> Uh, no, actually I'm not.
>> Okay, that's good. That's good.
>> Uh, well, first of all, I wasn't eating
a lot of doughnut. I was trying to have
uh point4 of a donut, which rounds down
to zero.
So, I figured anything below below 044
of a donut rounds down to zero.
>> So, you and I have had uh a disagreement
on longevity.
>> We had a little bit. Yeah. I was saying,
you know, we should push to get people
to 120, 150, and you were saying people,
you know, shouldn't live that long.
>> Uh, so how long do you want
>> Yeah.
>> You know, there's some,
>> you know, people in the world that have
done some bad things. How long do you
want them to live?
>> Yeah. Well, it's okay. They can get the
longevity.
>> This is a serious question, though. If
we them, a lot of things are going to
happen that we don't
>> Wait a second. You said one thing that
you said was interesting. He said um uh
we need people to die so people change
their minds.
>> Oh yes people people don't change their
minds they just die.
>> But so that makes more sense actually.
>> My response to that Elon was you know my
response to that was the head of GM
didn't have to die for Tesla to come
along and Lockheed and Northrup and
Boeing didn't have to go away for I mean
there's in a meritocracy the better
ideas will dominate.
So, I'm hoping that I can get you back
onto the longevity train. So, there's a
lot going on longevity right now, right?
>> Uh like what?
>> Well, David Sinclair is about to start
his epigenetic re uh reprogramming
trials in humans. It's worked in in
animals and and non-human primates. It's
going into humans.
>> Is this like a pole or an injection or
>> right now? It's an injection of an
adnoissociated virus. It's the three
Yamanaka factors.
>> Okay. Uh we've got a $101 million health
span X-P prize that's working on 730
teams working on reversing the age of
your brain immune system and muscle by
20 years. By the way, do you know why
it's $101 million?
>> No.
>> Because the primary funer when they
found out your carbon X price was 100
bucks, he wanted to make it bigger. So
it's 101.
>> Oh, who who's the Chip Wilson from
Lululemon?
>> Oh, okay. And then uh and then evolution
out of but Chip said, "Can we make it
bigger?" I said, "You put extra million
in, we'll make 101 million."
>> Sounds good.
>> It's a good story.
>> But then we got folks like Dario Amade
predicting doubling the human lifespan
in the next 10 years.
>> Um that's
probably correct.
>> Okay, great.
>> I don't know about doubling, but in
significant
>> significant increase. Sure.
>> Um
>> which is easily escape velocity.
>> I mean because when Yeah.
>> Depending how old your Yeah.
Oh yeah, for sure. Or effective age.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So I mean I think you know I think that
for
>> too much and turn into a baby or
something.
>> That's what I'm telling all the students
there. It's like Peter what happened.
>> Yes. Yes. There there is a frozen.
>> You got a zero wrong in the dosage.
Just a small factor of 10.
>> Grow out of it. It'll be fine. Exactly.
>> You won't remember it. I literally
>> I mean, wouldn't it be funny if we do
this in like 10 years? Okay, we should
do it in I'll do we'll do it in 10 years
for sure. And and and let's see let's
see if we look younger.
>> That's a good side bet.
>> My my comment was always Elon's back
then Elon was like, you know, late 40s.
wait till he gets into his 60s, he's
going to want, you know, lunch anymore.
>> I mean, I I I want things to not hurt.
>> Yeah, sure. Of course.
>> It's like it's like basically it's it
seems like it's only a matter of time
before you get back back pain.
>> Yeah.
>> Um like it's a when, not an if your back
hurts.
>> Arthritis. Yes.
>> Yeah. Like these things suck basically.
>> Being able to sleep through the night
without going to the bathroom
>> a lot. It's very much That one.
>> Yeah, it's
more than hope.
>> That one.
>> Oh man, that would that's like the
infinite money one.
>> Why did you invest in longevity? So I
can sleep through the night and not go
to the bathroom.
>> Bladder bladder. Yeah. Duration.
>> I mean, admittedly, if you have to wear
adult diapers, that's a that's a bummer.
>> That's not good.
Adult D is a real,
you know, it's like one of the one of
the signs that a country
is not on the right path
>> is when the adult diapers exceed the
baby diapers.
>> Yeah, we're there.
>> Yeah. South Korea will be there anymore.
>> They already No, they passed that point.
>> No, they passed that point.
>> They passed that point many years ago.
Japan passed the point many years ago.
>> Doesn't go well looking at the Japanese
economy. No, I mean like South Korea is
like uh Yeah. One third replacement
rate.
>> Crazy.
>> Yeah. So, three generations they're
going to be 127th. So, 3 3% of their
current size. I mean, North Korea won't
need to invade. They can just walk
across.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> This is going to be some people in, you
know, walkers or something like there'll
be a bunch of optimist.
But you you know you've been very verbal
about the you know the not
overpopulation but massive
underpopulation.
>> Yeah I've been saying this for ages.
>> Yeah. Longevity is going to be an
important part of that solution. I also
think by the way if you increased the
productive life of most Americans by
just a few years you'd flip the entire
economics here.
>> Well if AI and robots is going to make
everything sure free basically.
>> Yeah. Um but uh well how long would you
want to live?
>> Uh I want to I want to go you know other
planetary systems. I want to go and
explore the universe. Yeah. I mean you
know I would like to double my lifespan
for sure.
>> I don't want you know I'm not sure I
want to talk about immortality but
>> you know at least 120 150. It's a long
time.
>> One of the worst curses possible would
be that
>> Yes. May you live forever.
>> May you live forever.
>> That would be one of the worst
>> Yeah. curses you could possibly give
anyone.
>> But I think life's going to get very
interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> Far more. We're going to speedrun Star
Trek as my partner Alex Weer Gross says.
>> Yeah.
>> Speedrunning Star Trek would be cool.
>> Yeah. Um
>> well, at a minimum your kids will have
infinite life expectancy. If you're
talking about escape velocity, if you
can double lifespan, there's it's not
even close. You're you're clearly past
longevity escape velocity. They the idea
of 50 years of AI improvement.
>> Yeah, it's great. I mean, we're going to
have 20 years on this.
>> I don't know. I got too many fish to
fry.
>> So, I invited
>> This is something, by the way, that I
that I think I just I think it's very
obviously other people think this, too,
but I've long thought that um like long
like longevity or semi- mortality is an
extremely solvable problem. I don't
think it's a particularly hard problem.
Um,
I mean, when you consider the fact that
your body is extremely synchronized in
its age,
>> Yeah.
>> the clock must be incredibly obvious.
Um, nobody has an old left arm and a
young right arm,
>> right?
>> Why is that?
>> What's keeping them all in sync?
um you're programmed to die is the is
the way you're programmed to die. And so
if you change the program,
>> yeah,
>> uh you will live longer.
>> And we've got, you know, species of the
boowhead whale can live for 200 years.
The Greenland shark can live for 500
years. And when I when I learned that, I
said, why can't they? Why can't we? And
I said, it's either a hardware problem
or software problem, and we're going to
have the tech to solve that. And I do
believe that it's this next decade. So
the important thing is not to die from
something stupid before the before the
solutions come. You know, I invited you
uh
>> in retrospect the long the solution to
longevity will seem obvious.
>> Yeah.
>> Extremely obvious.
>> I I think the thing worth working on
Peter's going to work on this anyway,
but the thing to work on is exactly what
you said. If old ideas don't calcified
old ideas don't just die off, add that
to the pile of things we need to think
about today because there are a whole
host of other AI related things we need
to think about today.
>> Let me let me finish on the longevity
point one second. Um Elon uh I want to
invite you again. So uh uh there's a
company called Fountain Life that uh
created with Tony Robbins, Bob Hurry,
Bill Cap, and we do a 200 gigabyte
upload of you. Everything knowable about
you. Full genome, full all imaging,
everything. Right. President Blly and
the first lady came through, called it
an amazing 10 out of 10 experience.
>> Um
>> I think I don't want you to pull a Steve
Jobs
>> and kick the bucket because of some
>> because some something they didn't know.
I mean, so if you ask yourself,
>> do you actually know what's going on
inside your body right now?
>> Um, I did an MRI recently and submitted
it to Gro and it didn't
>> need no
none of the doctors nor Grock found
anything wrong,
>> but that's a fraction of the
information, right? I mean, it's your
full genome, your microbiome, your
metabolism, everything.
>> And okay,
>> it's possible. So,
>> don't call me.
>> What's that?
>> Don't call me, bro.
We have a We have a center in
>> your water bottle.
>> We have
God damn it.
>> Too late.
>> Sorry. It's already in the works.
>> So, can you go through the the rationale
of UHI? How does how does universal high
income work?
>> Okay. So
there's there's going to be more
intelligence,
digital intelligence than all human
intelligence combined and more humanoid
robots than all humans.
>> Um, and assuming we're in a benign
scenario, Star Trek, sort of Rodenberry,
not Cameron situation.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> poor Jim.
>> Yeah. I mean, I guess it's important to
have these sort of
>> counterpoints.
>> Yeah. Let's not let's go not go in that
direction. Um
thing. Um so
uh
the the robots are going to just do
whatever you want.
>> All the blue collar labor is being done
by robots. All data centers are being by
robots.
>> The the white collar labor will be the
first to go because until you until you
can move atoms, the thing that can be
replaced first is anything that that
involves just
digital if it's digital like if it
involves
>> t tapping keys on a keyboard and
>> moving a mouse the computer can do that
they can do that
>> sure
>> um you need the humanoid robots to to uh
shape atoms so if all you're doing is
changing bits of information which is
white color work um that is that is the
first thing that that
>> when this is the inspirational this is
the inspirational part of the podcast by
the way when is when is all white color
work gone by when?
>> Well, there there's there's a lot of
inertia. So, even with AI at its current
state, um I'd say you're you're pretty
close to being able to replace half of
all jobs of
>> and you know that white color jobs that
includes anything like education, too.
>> Yeah. M
>> so anything that involves information
um and anything short of shaping atoms
um AI can do probably half or more of
those jobs right now.
>> Sure.
>> But there's a lot of inertia. People
just keep doing the same the same thing
for quite some time. Um, and there
actually has to be a a company that
makes more use of AI that competes with
a company that makes less use of AI,
creating a forcing function for
increased use of AI,
>> right?
>> Otherwise, the company that that still
has humans do um things that AI can do
will still continue to exist. Being a
computer used to be a job. So it used to
be that a human computer
like yeah
>> a computer being a computer was a job.
You would compute numbers. Sure. It
didn't it didn't used to be a machine.
It used to be a job description. Um, and
there you can look online there's these
pictures of like where they're having
like skyscrapers full
>> of women copying mostly women copying
from ledger to ledger
>> and men too but but yeah but pe people
um
>> um but it was a lot of women but there's
there were just buildings full of uh
people just at desks doing calculations.
>> Yeah. Um so they'd be calculating the
interest in your bank account or um you
know some
um you know science uh experiment or
something like that or what but if you
want calculations done uh you people
would do it. Um so
um now
one laptop with a spreadsheet can
outperform a skyscraper of several
hundred human computers
>> right
>> of people doing calculations. Um, now if
even a few cells in that spreadsheet
were done manually,
um, it you would not be able to compete
with a spreadsheet that was entirely a
computer.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah.
What this means is that companies that
are
entirely AI will demolish companies that
are not.
>> Right.
>> It won't be a contest.
>> Agreed. And that flippid.
>> Yeah. one cell in that
>> just one if
>> I got to do that
>> would you want even one cell in your
spreadsheet to be manually calculated
>> that would be the most annoying cell and
you're like god damn it
>> y
>> and and and gets it wrong a bunch of the
time
error rate
>> so this flipping
>> flipping the flipping
>> um
>> are we monetizing hope effectively
>> yes
>> not not at this moment I think we're I
think we're pe I think we're pe doo for
people worried about the future of their
jobs.
>> Monetize.
>> We're at peak doom.
>> We're going to do that
as a t-shirt
>> and the mug.
>> And the mug.
>> Yes.
>> The mug.
>> Uh,
so but you have a sol you have a
solution to this
>> which is UHI.
>> Yes. Everyone can have whatever they
want.
>> So how does that work? How does UHI
work?
>> It's it's a good question. like we have
to figure out some like
>> I mean it's not a it's not a bumpy road
it yeah I mean so my concern isn't the
long run it's the next 3 to seven years
>> yes the transition will be bumpy uh
because humans don't like simultaneously
yes we'll have radical change social
unrest and immense prosperity
>> and you can buy all all the cyber trucks
you want
>> things are going to get very cheap
>> yes
>> um So this is actually and frankly if if
this doesn't happen we we'd go bankrupt
as a country. So the national debt is
enormous.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh the interest on the national debt
exceeds uh not just the military budget
but the military budget I think plus um
Medicare
>> um or Medicaid one of the two. It's like
like it's it's like one trillion
>> of interest. Yeah. Um
>> which is growing.
>> Yes. And the deficit is growing.
>> Yes.
>> Um
but the the so this so if if we don't
have AI and robots, we're all going to
go bankrupt and and and and we're headed
for economic doom.
>> We're going back also competitive
pressure from China. So this is
definitely going to happen. I guess
>> we're going back to the theme of this
talk. How can AI and exponential tech
save America and the world?
>> Don't you think that? But I want I want
to get I want to hit this because we
>> I was like quite pessimistic about it
and and and ultimately I decided to be
fatalistic and and
>> um look on the bright side.
>> I've got to see you look on the bright
side of life.
>> You're sitting there
crucified
right side.
>> But this is not about taxation and
redistribution.
>> Yeah. No, it's um
>> So, how do how does it work? Reason
through it with me.
>> Listen, by the way, I'm open to ideas
here.
>> Okay.
>> Uh so, it's not like I got this all
figured out.
>> All right. So, so I'm wondering if
instead of universal high income, if
it's universal, universal high stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> And services.
>> Yes.
>> The UHSS. We got
>> like I I guess Okay. This is my guess
for how things
roll out play out. And I I and by the
way, I'm this is this is going to be a
bumpy ride and it's not like I know the
answers here. Um but I I I have decided
to look on the bright side. U and and
I'd like to thank thank you guys for
being an inspiration in this regard.
>> Thank you.
>> Happy to help. Yeah,
because I I actually think it's it it is
better to be a an optimist and wrong
than a pessimist and right.
>> Yes, for sure.
>> Um for quality of life.
>> Yeah. And by the way, there's also not a
force of nature. It's under
>> like to me it's really clear that we
don't have any system right now to make
this go well. But AI is a critical part
of making it go well. And at some point,
Grock is going to be addressing this
exact topic that we're talking about or
it has to be one of the big four AI
machines. I mean, it's coming dealing
with it. There's no velocity knob,
right? There's no onoff switch. It is
coming and accelerating.
>> I call AI and robotics the supersonic
tsunami.
>> Yes.
>> Which maybe is a little alarming.
>> You think it's good. That's good. Well,
because the wake up call.
>> This is important for folks to to gro
because um uh I don't want to leave
people depressed. I want people to
understand what's coming. So we're we're
basically demonetizing
everything. I mean labor becomes the
cost of capex and electricity. AI is
basically uh intelligence available uh
>> at a dimminimous price. Um
uh so you're able to produce almost
anything. Things get down to basic cost
of materials and electricity, right? Uh
so people can have whatever stuff they
want, whatever services they need.
>> Um it's not when when we say universal
high income, it sounds like it's a tax
and redistribute, but that's not the
case.
Um
>> it's it's I think my my best guess for
how this will manifest is that prices
will become prices will drop.
>> Yeah.
>> So as the efficiency of of production or
the provision of services drops um
prices will drop. I mean you know prices
in in dollar terms are the ratio between
the output of goods and services and the
money supply.
>> Sure. So if your output of goods and
services increases faster than the money
supply, you will have deflation and or
vice versa, you know. So um
>> it's a good thing we're growing the
money supply so quickly then,
>> right?
>> I I I Yes. That's why I I I came like
let's not worry about growing the money
supply. It won't matter because the
output of goods and services actually
will grow faster than the money supply.
And I think we'll be in this and this is
a prediction I think some others have
made but um I will add to it which is uh
that that I think governments will will
actually be pushing to to increase money
supply um like like faster.
>> Yes. They won't be able to waste the
money fast enough which is saying
something for
>> Isn't it isn't it crazy how close those
timelines just randomly worked out? I
mean at the rate because we're expanding
the national debt not because we're
anticipating AI. We were going to do
that no matter what.
>> And so it's like right on the edge of
becoming Argentina.
>> But yeah, at the time so productivity is
going to improve dramatically
>> and it is improving dramatically. I I I
think we'll see
>> I think I think we may see
like high double digit uh output of
goods and services. We have to be a
little careful about how economists
measure things
and um
>> yeah
it's it I mean there's like my favorite
joke I have a few economist jokes that I
that that I like but um maybe my
favorite one economist joke is um two
economists are going for a walk in in
the forest um and they come across a
pile of [ __ ] and one economist says I'll
pay you 100 bucks to eat a pile of [ __ ]
I've heard this one. This is great. Go
ahead.
>> And so the guy takes 100 bucks and eats
the [ __ ]
>> Then they keep walking. They come across
another pile of [ __ ] And and the other
guy says, "Okay, I'll give you a hundred
bucks to eat a pile of shit."
So he gives him a hundred bucks and and
then the the guys can say, "Wait a
second.
>> We both have the same amount of money.
We ate a both ate a pile of [ __ ]
>> Oh my god. It sounds like
>> but we increase the economy by $200.
>> This is the kind of [ __ ] you get in
economics. So So uh but if you if so if
you say like just the output of goods
and services um
the will be much greater. You just need
a
>> so profitability of companies go through
the roof
>> at some point. But but no but so the
question becomes is that taxed by the
government? uh
>> is that then taxed by the government and
redistributed as some level of income as
a U as a UHI or UBI? In other words, um
one of the questions is if in fact this
future we hit massive productivity uh
and massive profitability because we're
dividing by zero. The cost of labor has
gone to nothing. The cost of
intelligence has gone to nothing and
we're still producing products and
services faster and faster. So there's
more profitability. Someone needs to be
buying it and someone needs to be able
to have the capital to buy it. Um,
I mean this is an important question to
get to get thought through.
>> Yeah. Um, well, one like side
recommendation I have is like don't
worry about like squirreling money away
for uh retirement in like 10 or 20
years. It won't matter.
>> No.
>> Okay. either either we're not going to
be here or
>> it it just uh like it's it's you won't
need to save for retirement. If if any
of the things that we've said are true,
saving for retirement will be
irrelevant.
>> The services will be there to support
you. You'll have the home, you'll have
the healthcare, you'll have the
entertainment.
>> The way this unfolds is fundamentally
impossible to predict because of
self-improvement of the AI and the
accelerating timeline.
>> Yeah. It's called singularity for a
reason.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> I don't know what goes what what what
happens after when after the event
horizon.
>> Exactly. You can't never see past the
black hole or the event horizon. The
light cone.
>> I mean Ray has a singularity out way too
far. I mean this is like the next what
what's your timeline for
>> for this?
>> We're in the singularity.
>> Well, we are in the singularity for
sure. We're in the midst of it right now
for sure.
>> And we just we're in this beautiful
sweet spot which is you know the
>> we're the roller coasters were just
>> Yeah. Exactly. That's a great analogy.
It's like that feeling.
>> You're at the top of the roller coaster
and you're about to go.
>> Yeah. But you know it's going to be a
lot of G's when you lot when you hit it.
>> Uh and it's like people like I don't
have to just have courtside seats. I'm
on the court.
>> Exactly.
>> And it blows my And still blows my mind
>> sometimes multiple times a week.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and so
>> just when I think I'm like
wow. And then it's like
>> two days later more wow.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> exponential wow.
Yeah, I think we'll hit um AGI next year
in 26.
>> Yeah, I heard you say that.
>> Yeah, I've said that for a while
actually.
>> And then you know and then you said by
2029 2030 equivalent to the entire human
race.
>> 2030 we exceed like I'm confident by
um AI will exceed the intelligence of
all humans combined. That's way
pessimistic if if you hit AGI next year
and that's that's you know that date is
is in flux but from that date
>> to self-improvements that are on the
order of a th00and 10,000x just
algorithmic improvements is very short
>> and so everybody why isn't everybody
talking about this right now?
>> Well I mean on on
>> X on X they off.
>> Yes. But why isn't
>> about every day basically.
>> Yeah. But it's like
>> stop
>> it's not
>> okay. Okay. So, I'll tell you something
else that I I'll tell you something that
most people in the AI community don't
yet understand.
>> Okay.
>> Um, which is there the almost no one
understands this. Um, the intelligence
density potential uh is vastly greater
than what we're currently experiencing.
So, I I think we're we're off by tours
of magnitude in terms of the
intelligence density per gigabyte
>> of what what's achievable.
>> Yes. per gigawatt of energy
>> per I'm characterize it by file size
okay if the file size of the AI if you
>> if you have a say get intelligence
>> oh okay in know yes sir
>> um
>> on your on your drives on your laptop
>> power tube parameters the same thing
whatever
>> um so two two orders of magnitude
>> yes
>> and you like you said you ringside
courtside seat
>> you would know I'd say it's it's it's uh
two yes Yeah.
>> Towards magnitude improvement in um
that's just just algorithmic
improvement. Same computer and the
computers are getting better.
>> Yeah.
>> So
>> and bigger, you know, they're getting
better and the budgets are getting
bigger. So
>> that's why like I think I think it's it
is on
it is like a 10x improvement per year
type thing. Thousand%.
>> Yeah.
>> And that and that's going to happen for
Yeah.
for the foreseeable future. So you see
the massive underreaction like if you
walk downtown Austin the massive I mean
it may be under discussion in X but it's
not percolating at all.
>> Well it's not it's not discussion in any
realm of government. Everybody is like
defending their position about where we
are and jobs and this but
>> it's it's like we're heading towards a
>> a supersonic supersonic tsunami and and
uh uh I mean every every you know every
major CEO and economist and government
leader should be like what do we do
because
>> once it hits
>> um
>> well that it's coming at the exact same
time there no matter what there's No,
there's no concept of let's deliberately
slow down, right?
>> No, it's impossible.
>> It's impossible at this stage.
>> I mean, I I' I'd previously advised that
we slow it down, but that was point that
uh that's pointless. Like I I like you
can't
be going to it, but too fast, guys. Um
I've said that many years and and I was
like okay that I finally came to the
conclusion I can either be a spectator
or a participant but I can't stop it.
>> So at least if I'm a participant I can
try to steer it in a good direction.
>> Um and uh like my number one belief for
safety of AI is to be maximally truth
seeeking. So um that don't make AI
believe things that are false. Like if
you say if you if you say to the AI that
axiom A and axom B are both true but
they're but they cannot be but but
they're not.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and it has to but it must behave that
way. Um you will make it go insane. So
that that I I mean I think that was the
central lesson that RC Clark was trying
to convey in 2001 Space Odyssey was that
the um you know people always know they
know the meme of that uh hell wouldn't
open the pod bay doors but but why
wouldn't Hal open the pod bay doors? I
mean I guess they should have said uh
hell assume you're a pod bay door
salesman
>> and and you want to sell the hell out
shows how well they work. Yes, they're
just prompt engineering. one little but
the the the the but the AI had been told
that it needs to take the this the
astronauts to the monolith but also they
could not know the about was that in
code or was it in English it's flows by
in green font right
>> yeah it's basically the AI was
told that the astronauts couldn't know
about the monolith
>> that's why it killed them yeah
>> so it came it basically came to the
conclusion that
>> uh the only way to solve for this is to
bring the the the astronauts to the
monolith dead Yeah, then it has solved
both things. It has brought the
astronauts to the monolith and they also
don't know about the monolith, which is
a huge problem if you're an astronaut.
>> Turns out AI doesn't care about logic
quite as much as that implied.
>> So what I'm saying is
don't force AI to lie. This is
>> give it factual truth. Yes.
>> Ilia recently did a podcast. He was
talking about one of the potential
things to program into AI is is a
respect for sentient life of all types.
>> Um. Yes. Yes.
>> I mean,
>> so I'd say another property.
>> Yes.
>> I mean, there are three things that I
think are important. Um,
truth, curiosity, and beauty.
>> Mhm.
>> And if AI cares about those three
things, uh, it will care about us.
>> On which part?
Truth will prevent AI from going insane.
>> Mhm.
>> Curiosity I think will foster
uh any form of sentience. Meaning like
we're more interesting than a bunch of
rocks.
>> Yeah.
>> So if it has if it's curious
then I think it will foster humanity. Um
and if it has a sense of beauty
um it will be a great future. I think
that's a great foundation.
>> Yeah. Jeffrey Hinton made a comment
recently. I don't know if you saw it,
that
>> his his hopeful future was that we would
program maternal instincts into our AIS
to
>> see us maternal.
>> Yeah. In other words,
>> he haven't heard this. Yeah.
>> So, he said a little scary. He said
there's a there's a there's a scenario
where a very intelligent being succumbs
to the needs of a less intelligent being
and that's the mother taking care of the
child.
Do you think that we might have a uh
singletarian uh like a a
uh that achieves dominance and
suppresses others? And do you imagine
that that ASI could be a means to
stabilize
the world in humanity?
>> Darwin's
observations about evolution,
>> yes,
>> will apply to AI
>> just as they apply to biological life.
>> They will compete with each other.
>> Yes.
>> Uh there's a lot of great science
fiction books where the first ASI
basically suppresses the others.
Um then the question is what do you
program into it you know um I I it's so
the there's a speed of light constraint
that makes that difficult. Um
the speed of light is what will prevent
um
a single mind from existing. Um so light
can it it takes um
a millisecond to travel 300 kilometers
in a a vacuum. Um and uh only you can
only get a little over 200 km in a
millisecond in glass
>> in fiber, right?
>> Yeah. Um so
even on earth
uh there will be multiple AIs because of
the speed of light.
Um
yeah and and this there are clusters of
compute that could you could try to
synchronize but they weren't
synchronized completely. Um so therefore
you will have many minds because of the
speed of light.
>> They don't really have clean borders
anymore either though. You have the when
you use a mix mixture of experts kind of
design it's just flowing through the
grand network and you can reassemble
parts of it midway through. And you
know, we're used to organisms that have
clear borders like your head ends there,
your head ends there.
>> But these things are all mushy.
>> To put a bow around this part, I hope
you'll put some more thought into UHI.
Uh because I think it's really it's
really important for us to have without
a vision. Uh people need a vision of
where we're going. People need
something.
>> Basically, the government could just
issue people free money.
>> But I don't think I I think that
>> based upon the profitability of all the
companies coming inside the country.
>> Just issue people free money. No,
they're doing that sort of kind of now.
>> Yeah.
>> But just just just basically issue
checks uh to everybody. Um and uh
>> but then how big for which person or
what you there's so much complexity
there. But the thought process behind
this rate of change can only be done
with AI assistance
>> and there's no government entity that's
going to keep up with that change. So
you have four big
>> certainly not the AI is
>> it's it's like
government is very slow moving as as we
all know. Um
>> so I think I it's that government really
can't react to to the AI. It's it's uh
AI is moving you know 10 times faster
than government maybe more. Um the the
one the one thing that the government
can do is just is just issue people
money. Um and um
>> try and try and keep the peace.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you know we had like whatever the the
co checks and whatever there's
>> um you know uh President Trump recently
issued like everyone in the military
like I think $1,776.
Uh I mean it's you can just basically
send people random random amounts of
money. It's
>> um
>> okay. So
>> so like nobody's going to stop is what
I'm saying. Um
>> and um
>> universal
>> I can tell you like let me tell you
about some of the good things
>> please.
>> Um
>> so right right now um there's a shortage
of doctors and and and great surgeons.
You're a doctor yourself. you know how
that they're it takes a long time for a
human to become
>> it's ridiculously expensive and long
>> ridiculously yes ridiculous a super long
time to learn to be a good doctor um and
and even then the the knowledge is
constantly evolving it's hard to keep up
with everything uh you know doctors have
limited time they make mistakes um and
you say like how many how many great
surgeons are there not not that many
great surgeons
>> when do you think optimist would be a
better surgeon
than the best surgeons. How long for
that?
>> Three years.
>> Three years. Okay. Yeah. And by the way,
>> three years at at scale.
>> Yes. All
>> more there probably be more Optimus
robots that are great surgeons than
there are
>> sure all surgeons on Earth.
>> And the cost of that is the capex and
electricity and it works in Zimbabwe.
The best surgeon is throughout in the
villages throughout Africa or any place
on the planet.
>> Yeah. Where do you think it'll roll out
first? Not the US obviously.
>> Um
>> here at at the uh Gigafactory.
>> Oh yeah. Just do surgery in the
>> um
>> but that's an important statement in
three years time.
>> Yeah.
>> Um because medicine I mean
>> I'm not like absolutely
if it's four or five years who cares.
That's still an incredible
>> statement to make. I mean good for
humanity, right? All of a sudden you
demonetize.
>> Okay. Here's the thing to understand
about like like humanoid robots in terms
of the rate of improvement. um which is
is that the um you you have um three
exponentials multiplied by each other.
You have an exponential increase in the
AI software capability.
>> Yeah.
>> Exponential increase in the AI chip
capability
>> um and an exponential increase in the
electromechanical dexterity. The
usefulness of the humanoid robot is it's
those three things multiplied by each
other, right? Um then you have the
recursive effect of Optimus building
Optimus,
>> right? And then you have the shared
>> you have a recursive multiplicable
triple exponential
>> and you have the shared knowledge of all
all the experiences.
>> Is that literally Optimus building
Optimus or is it because you know the
>> well not right now but will be the the
physical humanoid form factor building
the humanoid form as opposed to
>> it's foyman machine.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I love that. But the void machine is
usually something kind of like this
shape. You know, making something else
is a shape.
>> In principle, it's simply a
self-replicating thing.
>> Yeah.
>> Elon, do you know what the number one
question you ask a surgeon when you're
interviewing them?
>> Uh,
is this is this a surgeon joke?
>> No. It's how many It's how many times do
you How many times do you do that?
>> There's got to be some funny funny jokes
coming.
>> No, it's serious. It's it's how many
times did you do the surgery this
morning?
>> It's how many times did you do the
surgery this morning or yesterday? It's
the it's the number of experiences,
right?
>> And so with a shared memory
>> um you know every optimist surgeon will
have seen every possible pertabbation of
everything in infrared in ultraviolet.
No, not too much caffeine that morning.
They didn't have a a fight with their
husband or wife.
>> Yeah.
>> Extreme precision.
>> Yes. Three years. Um,
yes. Better than any any probably I'd
say if you like put a little margin on
it. Better than any human in four years
>> who's in plastic surgery
>> by 5 years. It's not even close.
>> So what what about the simple like just
I mean there's a million of these things
to figure out, but who's going to have
access to the first Optimus that does
far far better micro surgery than any
surgeon on Earth, but you've only
manufactured the first 10,000 of them?
How do you
>> I don't think people understand how many
robots there's going to be.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, there's a window said 10 billion
by 2040.
>> You still on that path?
>> Uh that's not that's a low number.
>> A low number.
>> Wow. What's the constraint? What's the
uh cuz if they're self-building, you
know,
>> metal the constraint is metal.
>> Yeah. Or lithium or
>> Yeah. You got to move the atoms. Um it's
just all just supply chain stuff. So
yeah, but your your point I mean there's
some rate limit. You can't just
>> manufacturing is very difficult. So you
got you got to
>> you you you it's it's recursive
multiplicable triple exponential but but
you still need to you still you still
have to climb that you know
>> selling hope once again I I think your
point was medicine is going to be
effectively free the best medicine in
the world. Everyone will have access to
medical care that is better than what
the president receives right now.
>> So don't go to medical school.
>> Yes. Pointless.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean unless you but I would say that
applies to any form of education is
there's not like some
I do it for social reasons.
>> Yeah.
>> You're not going to medical school.
>> If you want if you want if you want to
hang out with like-minded people, I
suppose. Uh
>> I mean people are still going to want to
be connected with people. There's going
to be some period of time
>> for reasons.
>> Yeah.
>> Like a hobby like a you know
>> well $9,000.
>> I mean there will be a point where where
it's expensive.
>> The younger generation says I do not
want that human touching me right when
the surgeon comes over. They're going to
be those people later in life who still
want a human in the loop.
>> Okay. for a little while on the edge for
a lesser for they want to live on the
edge. I mean, let's just take like we've
we've seen some advanced cases where of
automation like LASIC for example where
the the robot just lasers your eyeball.
>> Now, do you want an opthalmologist with
a hand laser?
>> No,
it's a little shaky laser pointer from
a horror movie like that.
>> Sorry, man. I I wouldn't want the best
opthalmologist, you know. The steadiest
hand out there with a [ __ ] hand laser
beyond my eyeball, you know?
>> Oh my god.
>> Yeah.
>> It's going to be like that.
>> It's like, do you want opthalmologist
with a [ __ ] hand laser or do you want
the robot to do it and actually work?
>> This episode is brought to you by
Blitzy, autonomous software development
with infinite code context. Blitzy uses
thousands of specialized AI agents that
think for hours to understand enterprise
scale code bases with millions of lines
of code. Engineers start every
development sprint with the Blitzy
platform, bringing in their development
requirements. The Blitzy platform
provides a plan, then generates and
pre-ompiles code for each task. Blitzy
delivers 80% or more of the development
work autonomously while providing a
guide for the final 20% of human
development work required to complete
the sprint. Enterprises are achieving a
5x engineering velocity increase when
incorporating Blitzy as their preide
development tool, pairing it with their
coding co-pilot of choice to bring an AI
native SDLC into their org. Ready to 5x
your engineering velocity? Visit
blitzy.com to schedule a demo and start
building with Blitzy today.
>> Let's jump into one of our favorite
subjects, space.
>> Yeah.
>> So, first off, how cool that Jared
Isaacman has become the NASA
administrator.
>> Friend of Yes.
>> I mean, I I don't hang out with Jared.
Like, people think I'm like huge buddies
with Jared, but um
>> uh I I I think I've only seen him in
person a few times.
>> Amazing candidate. Yeah, he's a really
smart person. You know him really well.
>> Yeah, I I took him to a Biconor launch
in 2008 for his first space experience.
>> I mean, he loves space next level and uh
is uh technically strong. He's a smart
and competent person like really smart
and really competent
>> and understands business.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. He understands he gets things done
>> and he's been there a few times.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, I I'm I'm just like,
you know, we want to have someone smart
and competent who, uh, loves space
exploration,
>> um, and will get things done at NASA.
>> I'm a huge fan.
>> That's what I was really so so happy
when he got renominated. And now,
>> yeah. Um,
>> um, I I think we need to
>> we need a new game plan for space. Like,
we need a moon base.
>> Yes.
>> Like a permanently
>> crude moon base. Y
>> uh and and build that up as fast as
possible.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I don't think we should do the, you
know, send a couple astronauts there for
hop around for a bit and come back cuz
we did that in ' 69.
>> Yes. Been there, done that.
>> Yeah. Um it's like a remake of a ' 60s
movie. It's never as good as the
original.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> so 2026 is going to be
>> like we need to go, you know, to do
something more cool, which
>> my nice on the
>> Yeah. Put up telescopes.
>> Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
>> So, do you forward deploy the robots,
build everything, get it all ready, make
the bed, and then
>> Yeah. Get get the jacuzzi warmed up on
>> That's an interesting
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> How early in the year are you going to
hit orbital refueling, you think, with
Starship?
>> Uh, not that early in the year.
>> I mean, are you are you shooting for the
home and transfer orbit?
>> I'd say towards towards the end of the
year. Um,
>> are you shooting for a Mars shot by the
end of next year?
We could, but uh it would be a low
probability shot
>> um and somewhat of a distraction. So
>> um
>> 29 then
>> it's not out of the question.
>> 28 29.
>> Um
>> yeah.
>> Uh but like on on Mondays I I have the
uh Starship uh engineering the big
Starship engineering review is on
Mondays. Um so that was uh actually the
la the thing I did just before coming
here. Um and um so I say like like
Starship is really we're doing something
that is at the limit of biological
intelligence.
>> Yeah.
>> This is a this is a hard thing to make.
>> Um
>> and and just to capture it, it was
created pre AAI.
>> Yeah. No AI was
>> probably the last
>> the last really big thing in that's not
AI. Interesting.
>> Probably the biggest thing ever made.
>> Yeah.
>> By pure human hands.
>> The Asia will say not bad for a human.
True.
>> Not bad for a human.
>> Yeah. But it'll be like remember
>> my little 20 watt meat computer. It's
not easy.
>> Yeah.
>> So suffering through the day.
>> Raptor.
>> That would be like uh doing accounting
doing your uh interest calculation with
a pencil. Yeah, that's that's pretty
good.
>> Yeah,
>> pretty good.
>> Did that with regular
>> not bad for a bunch of monkeys, you
know?
>> It's like it's like if you saw a bunch
of chimps like make a raft and cross the
river, you'd be like, "Oh, look at
that."
But you know, we celebrate we celebrate
the pyramids.
Good for them.
>> Give him some peanuts. Uh
>> these things become timeless, right?
>> Raptor 3 goes when?
>> Yeah, I think it's worth noting.
>> Raptor 3 is beautiful.
>> Starship.
>> It's an amazing by far the best rocket
engine ever.
>> Is that AI?
>> Nothing's even close. Nope.
>> That's also So that'll be the last
thing.
>> E4 will definitely be
>> AI. Yeah, there's
um like I think AI will start to become
relevant next year.
>> Mhm.
>> Um so maybe we'll it's not like we're
pushing off AI. It's just AI is can't do
rocket engineering yet.
>> Yep.
>> But we'll probably will be able to next
year.
>> We have a company in our incubator doing
mechanical design working with Andre and
so forth. And it's not you can design
brackets and parts and things but you
can't quite do rockets. But the timeline
is so short, you know, from point A to
point B.
>> If say like a year from now, probably it
can
>> it probably can be helpful, meaningfully
helpful in a year from now.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> so the big milestones are going to be
Starship V3 launching out of Cape
Canaveral, orbital refueling.
>> Yes.
>> Are those the big ones?
>> Well, yeah. Um, catching the ship with
the tower.
>> Yeah, that's right. Um
so really the thing that matters is can
we refly
>> the entire thing?
>> Yeah.
>> Uh we have reflow in a booster.
>> Sure.
>> Um
which is you know not bad for it's
largest flying objects. Um catching with
chopsticks you know.
>> Not bad for a bunch of monkeys.
>> You're keeping you're keeping the AIS
very entertained. Thank you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. The be like pat on
the back from the AGI hopefully. Um, is
there a target for number of reuses
before? Uh, I mean, it's got to be a lot
of wear and tear.
>> Uh, it it requires a lot of iteration to
achieve high reuse. So, you you figure
out like what what's breaking between
flights and you sort of iteratively
solve those things.
>> Um, so from people looking at it from
the outside might say, "Oh, the rocket
looks kind of the same." But there's
like a a thousand changes to to make it
more reusable, more reliable.
um you know the sheer amount of energy
you're trying to you know expend I mean
it's uh Starship is uh doing over 100
gigawatts of power on ascent.
>> It's a lot
you know
>> do some glass blowing under there and
get some uh
>> Yeah. Wow.
>> a lot. It's a lot.
>> There's a lot.
>> Um
>> but like the amazing thing is that it
doesn't explode.
>> Yes.
>> Some it sometimes doesn't explode.
That is
>> sometimes not exploding is um like we've
blown up a lot of engines on the test
stand.
>> Um
>> I mean is that what causes the wear and
tear or is it the re-entry of the or the
falling?
>> Well, that too. Um I mean for for the
booster um the re-entry is not that bad,
you know. um you know something's it's
it's it's not like that that's not
really like we also obviously just
solved that you know with with Falcon 9
so we kind of understand re booster
reuse
>> um we've had we've have over 500
reflights of the Falcon 9 boost stage
>> um so we really understand and and and
the Starship booster actually is a more
benign entry than um than the Falcon
uh booster because the uh the staging
ratio is more more biased towards the
upper stage for Starship. So I I shifted
the the mass ratio to uh be much higher
um on the ship side for Starship.
>> That was a mistake I made on Falcon 9
that there should be more mass in the uh
upper stage of Falcon 9.
>> Um so that the uh the staging velocity
of uh is is lower.
>> Yeah. If the station velocity of Falcon
9 was lower, would have less wear and
tear on Falcon 9.
>> Yeah, that's not intuitive at all.
That's interesting.
>> Yeah, because it's it's kind of a flat
optimization. Um the the parallel to
orbit um there's sort of a flat region
in the mass ratio of the first second
stages. And so you just want to bias
that mass ratio towards the uh to to put
more mass on the upper stage.
>> Yeah. Um, so, um,
yeah, because you know, you just you got
your kinetic energy scaling with the
square velocity. So, you've got to
describe that kinetic energy. If you're
past the melting point of whatever you
your stage is made of, you got a
problem.
>> Yep.
>> So, um,
>> my my colleague, uh, Alex Wisner Gross,
who's one of our moonshot mates here, I
wanted to ask a question. I do, too.
Have you seen the uh documentary Age of
Disclosure
about uh all of the announcements by US
government officials, military officials
about all the alien spacecraft that have
been have been uh sort of detained? And
I I've heard what you've said about
this.
>> Well, I do wonder why um you know, if
you plot on a chart the resolution of
cameras
>> Yeah.
>> over time like megapixels per year.
>> Yeah. Uh, and the resolution of UFO
photographs.
Why is the only constant? It's flat on
UFO.
>> We get a a fuzzy blob
25. Well, we got like, you know,
whatever 100 megapixel camera that can
can see your [ __ ] nose hairs. I don't
get it.
>> Can somebody take a shot of the UFO with
an actual camera for love of God?
>> But even if you knew,
>> that's a valid observation. I'm sure
there's an explanation.
>> Uh but anyway, it's uh
>> it would be fascinating.
>> I'm asked all the time if I've
>> Yes. And and I'm like, look,
>> um I can show you if if I was aware of
the slightest evidence of aliens, I
would immediately post that on X.
>> Yeah.
>> And um
>> so the question is
>> it would be the most viewed post of all
time. So, I I actually wonder about the
US public if they would like, "Oh,
that's interesting." Go back to their
sports scores the next day.
>> Yeah.
>> I think everyone would want to see the
alien.
>> Yeah.
>> Like if you got one.
>> Well, like
fast way to increase the military
budget. We like we found an alien. It
seems dangerous.
>> That's right. Unify the world.
>> They don't have an incentive to hide the
aliens. Do they have an incentive to uh
bring up show the alien because they
would not have any more arguments about
the military budget
>> if they seem a little bit dangerous?
>> Oh, I can always hope.
>> I can always hope.
>> I mean, I'm you know, we've got 9 9,000
satellites up there. We've never had to
maneuver around an alien spaceship
>> yet. So, well,
>> um
>> yeah. So anyway, so I guess the good
future is
um you can anyone can have whatever
stuff they want and incredible medical
care that's better than any medical care
that exists. So I think if you sort of
uh lift your gaze, you know, to not a
super distant point, five years from
now, four years from now, maybe
uh we'll have
better medical care than anyone has
today available for everyone
within 5 years.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
no scarcity of goods or services.
The best education available for
everybody.
>> What? You can learn anything you want
>> about anything for free.
>> Yeah.
>> What about access to compute?
>> People will probably care a lot more
about that than their government check
in about three years.
>> Well, what do they want to do with
compute?
>> Well, I mean compute translates to
anything you want, right? Your your
virtual friend, your entertainment, your
like it's it's probably everything.
>> Those are AI services basically.
>> Yeah. Or or your ability to innovate,
too. You can't innovate without an AI
assistant at that point. So
>> you one of one of our other moonshot
mates See Ismael said uh asked this
question. He said Elon you often say
physics is the law. Everything else is a
recommendation.
>> Mhm.
>> So as AI energy and space systems scale
exponentially. What non-physical
constraints organizational cultural
bureaucracy or human are now the real
bottleneck?
Is there a bottleneck?
Um, electricity generation is the
limiting factor.
Um, the innermost loop.
>> Yeah.
Um, I think people are underestimating
difficulty of bringing electricity
online. You know, you you've got to get
you've got to generate the electricity.
You've got to you need transformers for
the transformers.
>> Um, so you got to convert that voltage
to something that the computers can
digest. You've got to cool the
computers.
So it's it's basically electricity
generation and cooling
um are limiting factors for AI.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and once you have humanoid robotics,
they can address the power generation
and and the uh the cooling stuff. Um
but that that is the limiting factor and
will be for at least the next two years.
Isn't it amazing how divergent the
Memphis version of that is from the
space-based version? I you have solar
panels in common, but otherwise no
storage,
abundant amounts of energy. Yeah.
>> But you have launch costs and you have I
mean and weight suddenly matter. I don't
care too much about the weight in
Tennessee. Suddenly the weight is a
critical factor. I mean those two two
pathways for compute have a huge
divergence from here forward.
>> Yeah. um on once we get solar
domestically
at scale and uh if we're launching
Starship at scale then um by far the
cheapest way to do AI compute will be in
space. Um so once you have the once you
have full and complete reusability um
the propellant cost per flight is maybe
a million dollars.
>> Yeah. People don't realize that people
have
>> to rid amount of expectations how much
it costs. So, so if you listen,
>> it's called a million dollars of
transport for 10 megawatt of of AI
comput.
>> Yeah.
>> So, assuming everything keeps trending
the way it's currently trending, if you
look at the next four years of
accelerating launches,
>> so 200 tons per launch.
>> Yeah. Thousands where you're going, but
yeah, like if say sun if say high
altitude sunny, it's probably more like
150 tons. But yeah, it's the right order
of magnitude is at least it's it's in
excess of 100 tons uh for a marginal
cost per flight of around a million
million.
>> So So what fraction of all that launched
mass is data centers in space as opposed
to
>> moon base as opposed to launch to Mars
as opposed to interesting how I mean
this is a new we weren't talking about
this as a space objective even you know
a year ago.
>> Yeah. All of a sudden, data centers have
become the massive driving force for
opening up the space
>> and also the urgent the urgent use case
too.
>> I mean, I used to I used to wonder
what's going to drive humanity. I I
thought it was asteroid mining, right?
You were focused on on Mars. Um,
>> we will actually want to mine asteroids
to turn them into
>> Sure. uh you know
>> before before you
>> photovoltaic
>> before you you know
>> not not for anything else like
>> I mean if we're gonna if we're going to
build out Dyson swarms
>> yeah just a bunch of satellites around
the sun
>> yeah how how how long
>> what's your time frame for Alex another
question Alex wanted to have us ask
what's your time frame for uh for
humanity achieving a Dyson swarm is it
50 years
>> how big is this
>> yeah know it's it's a matter
>> Dyson swarm people think like
everything's just going to be covered in
satellites I think It's not quite that
that I mean I think we you have to like
what mass ends up becoming satellite. Um
you know Mercury probably ends up being
satellites.
>> Yes.
>> Jupiter.
>> Jupiter. Yeah. Saturn.
>> Uh it's a little gassy.
>> Oh yeah.
>> It's big but there's got a lot of rocks
orbiting.
>> Do you leave Mars alone? But yeah leave
Mars alone.
>> Asteroids. Asteroids are are fantastic
food source.
>> Uh yeah.
>> Yeah. No gravity. Well gravity well on
Jupiter is a non already mostly
differentiated into, you know,
carbonacious condrites for fuel and
nickel iron for materials,
>> gold. Yeah.
>> A bunch of the asteroid belt probably
turns into solar panels,
>> you know, star star power.
>> So, I've known you for
>> I've known you for 26 years now. It
feels to me like I don't want to be, you
know, uh it feels like you've gotten
much smarter or much more capable
over this last decade. Do you feel that
way? Do you feel like you just have
better people around you, better tools?
What what's changed? Because the level
of um
of audacity, you know, orders of
magnitude. Orders of magnitude. I mean,
>> some say insane.
>> Insanity. Audacious.
>> Yeah.
>> I say hope.
>> Uh what's how how do you feel about
that?
What's changed? Do you feel that way? I
mean, the scope of what your ability is.
>> Um,
how do you self-reflect on that?
>> Well, I' I've had to solve a lot of
problems in a lot of different arenas,
which um
you you get this cross fertilization of
of knowledge of of problem solving. Um,
and if if you problem solve in a lot of
different arenas,
then like what what is easy in one arena
is trivial in is like what what is
trivial in one arena
>> is a superpower in another arena. It's
sort of like planet kryp. You came from
planet krypton
>> type of thing.
>> So, uh you know krypton planet krypton
you'd just be normal. Um but if you come
to earth you're Superman. Um so if you
take say um manufacturing of volume
manufacturing of complex objects in the
automotive industry um I have to work on
solving that um
when translated to the space industry
it's like being Superman
>> um because rockets are are made in very
small numbers
>> if you apply automotive manufacturing
technology to satellites and rockets. Uh
it's like being Superman.
>> Um then if you take uh advanced material
science from rockets and you apply that
to the automotive industry, you get
Superman again.
>> Yeah.
>> Fascinating.
>> That's came from planet Krypton. Back
back in planet Krypton. This is normal.
>> You know, it's funny how how like the
knowledge ports that that was true with
Tesla and SpaceX being completely
separate.
>> Yeah.
>> But now they actually interact because
you know, AI ties everything together.
The orbiting. Yeah. The convergence is
crazy. Like I don't know if you
visualize these parts fitting together
originally.
>> No.
>> No. I mean
>> I didn't I don't think they at this
point things I guess everything
ultimately converges in the singularity.
>> Um
>> yeah that's what I think too.
>> You have lots of different parts of the
puzzle that you get to play with.
>> Uh
there's one part that's missing which is
the fab.
>> Yeah.
>> You going to buy Intel?
you get it for a fraction of uh
>> that's that was the uh that was the bet
we made
>> 170 billion
>> um I think it needs venue fab
>> well
I agree but licenses real estate ASML
machines it's not easy just get the
assets and go I don't think it's easy
that's why I mean I it's not like I
think it's a simple thing to solve I
think it's a hard thing to solve but um
but it must be solved
I've come to the conclusion that um
>> would it be would it be solely captured
by you or would it be an asset for the
US?
>> Look, I'm just saying that we're going
to we're going to hit a chip wall.
>> Yeah.
>> If we don't do the fab.
>> So, we got two ch two choices. Hit the
chip wall or make a fab.
>> Well, and TSMC for whatever reason is
massively worried about overbuilding,
which is insane. Um,
>> but the whole world will be stuck with a
shortage of chips for
>> basic. So, so, so they are actually
they're I don't know if they're right
for the right reason, but they're
they're right. Um,
>> how so?
>> Because it's actually like
what is the limiting factor at any given
point in time? Um the limiting factor
say if you say like by Q3 next year like
in 9 months 9 12 months the limiting
factor will be turning the chips on
>> power
>> just power.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh you need power and all of the
equipment necessary power and
transformers and cooling.
>> So it's it's not like you can just sort
of drop off some GPUs at the power
plant.
>> Yeah. And you vertically integrated
you've got it
>> again with an X AI, didn't you?
>> Sorry.
>> You vertically integrated. Yes,
>> that inside of XAI,
>> we designed our own transformer.
>> Yes. And your own cooling system.
>> Yes.
>> But they're worried that if they make
more than 20 million GPUs, like they
make 40 million instead of 20 million,
that 20 million will not find a source
of power,
>> but they won't be bought because if
there's anything missing that prevents
them from being turned on.
>> Yeah.
>> Um they cannot be turned on.
>> So, uh they've they've got to have a
power plant with excess with enough
power. So you got have enough gaw then
you've got to convert that from probably
coming out of a power plant at you know
100 to 300 kilovolts type of thing.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you've ultimately you got to got to
convert that uh down to you know several
hundred volts at the at the rack level.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so if you're missing any of the power
conversion steps uh you you you won't be
able to turn them on and then you've got
to extract the heat. Um so it it it's a
big shift for the data center world to
move to liquid cooling because they've
used air cooling.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and um you know the consequences of a
burst pipe uh are very substantial. So
if if you if you blow a pipe a water
pipe in a data center
>> Yeah, I know. I've seen that.
>> You just you just fragged a bill a
billion dollars right there.
>> It just seems inconceivable to me
though. Like if if I had those chips, I
would find a way to turn them on. the
the value of the intelligence coming out
the other side so far outweighs the
complexity of trying to find a way and
there would be a way
>> but it's just the crossing of the
curves. So if
>> if if chip output is growing
exponentially but power honest is
growing uh in a in a sort of slow linear
fashion.
>> Yeah. than the
>> which is chip output
>> right now.
>> Exactly. Is chip output growing
exponentially? And it's like on very
slow exponent if it's growing
exponentially. It's
>> for a for high power AI chips it's
growing exponentially.
>> Oh
>> like what if we do 20 million GPUs next
year what are we talking about the
following year? like 22 million 24 I
mean I just I don't see the fabs coming
online
>> but maybe
>> so we have two we have two issues to
solve
>> it's it's you have to like sort of pick
a point in time and say what what is the
limiting factor at at any given point in
time so I'm not saying that power will
be forever the limiting point it's just
if you say pick a a date and say at this
point is our chips limiting factor our
power is the limiting factor or or power
conversion equipment and cooling So it's
sort of you need transformers for
transformers. Um so uh
this is a very hard thing. Um it's much
harder than people realize. So for XAI,
Xi is going to have the first gigawatt
uh training cluster
>> um at Colossus 2 in in Memphis. In order
for us to do that, we have
>> like this month, right?
>> Next month or two.
>> Um like mid January.
>> Yeah. So, um, mid January will be a
gigawatt of classes 2, not counting
classes one. Um, and then one and a half
gigawatts probably in like, uh, April or
Aprilish.
>> Incredible.
>> So, um, this is off coherent training.
>> These are the first B200s.
>> Uh, these are GV300's.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
>> first ones off the line to get flipped
on.
>> Yeah,
>> that's incredible.
And those are like the XCI team had to
pull off a whole bunch of miracles in
series for this to occur.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and um
and like
even though there are 300 kilovolt there
multiple high voltage power lines going
right past a building. Um the you in
order to connect to those uh it takes a
year.
>> Oh no.
>> Yeah. You built the entire thing and
you're still not connected. My god.
>> So, we had to to uh cobble together a
gigawatt of power um
>> natural gas.
>> Yes. With turbines um that range in size
from 10 megawatts to to 50 megawatts to
get to a gigawatt. There's a whole bunch
of them.
>> Um and you've got to make them all work
together. um manage the the you know the
the the power input you know and then
you've got to use a bunch of mega packs
just like
>> like when you do the training the the
power fluctuations are gigantic.
>> Yeah.
>> So uh you the generators it drives
generators crazy generators want to blow
up basically because they they can't
react
>> uh you know if there's like a 100
millisecond it's like a symphony.
>> Yeah.
>> And the whole symphony goes so quiet for
100 milliseconds the generators lose
their minds.
>> Yeah. Uh, so
>> it's like Marvin the depressed robot
>> those issues.
>> Yeah. So the mega so you've got mega
packs that are sort of doing the power
smoothing
and and but
xai had to build a a gigawatt of power
and and and uh and there's and there's
not a lot of like uh
gas turbine power plants available
uh because I bought them all
>> on on demand and you can't go buy your
local nuclear
that's all that's all training time
issues though if if by some miracle TSMC
doubled its productivity and turned it
all into GB300's
and you couldn't find a way to use them
in a bigger training cluster. You would
still have infinite demand at inference
time sprinkled all over the world and
you could you could park them there for
6 months and then bring them back to
training. There's no way those things
would not get turned on somewhere
somehow.
>> It's not that they won't ever be turned
on, but but I'm just saying that the the
rate of of
>> the rate limiting steps,
>> this is my prediction. I could be wrong.
Um but my my prediction is that the is
that TSMC's concern is is valid. I don't
know if valid in my opinion for the
reason that it is possible to for chip
production to exceed the rate at which
uh the the um the AI chips can be turned
on. Um because you don't you don't just
have the GB3s, you got the um you know
Amazon's got the tranniums, Google's got
the um
>> yeah all go into TSMC the almost Samsung
a little bit. Yeah. Um,
>> it's like a bottleneck on all of
humanity.
>> My other son, my other son, Jet, who's
14, wanted to know about your AI gaming
studio. Um, and the impact of of AI on
in the gaming world. What are your
thoughts? What what do you are you
building out? I mean, you're you've been
a gamer for some time.
>> Yeah, it's why I got started programming
computers. Um
um I think I had got a there was like a
video game set pre Atari that had like
four preset games
>> and it was basically just blocks, you
know, of one key pong and and it was
like a race car game, but like it's just
blocks basically blocks on a TV.
>> Um
>> you ever play Civ?
>> Yeah. Civ is actually a very that's a
real in terms of games that like educate
you while you have fun.
>> Yeah,
>> Civ is epic at that. It's like
>> it is epic. that teaches you so much
about civilization and you're having a
good time
>> and and the only way I ever win is
getting off the planet. I don't
>> like tech victory to Alpha Centtory.
>> Tech victory. I never even start going
down the culture relationship. I just
>> just get off the planet as fast as I
can. I
>> I guess I sort of I guess I am sort of
aiming for the Alpha Centator tech
victory essentially.
>> It just seems like the right way to win,
you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Rather than obliterate the
other tribes. It's funny because I
thought the other methods
>> that's there's different ways to win.
>> I I haven't I will one of the ways is
like
>> it's Nemesis's favorite game. You can
you can like kill all the other tribes
is one of the ways to win. That's a war
of a war victory.
>> But like but you can also win by
technology victory where you are the
first to get to Alpha Centuri.
>> Nice.
>> Yeah.
>> Or culture or religion.
>> Which which does work. I I didn't even
think it was possible but my son
>> wins that way.
It's it's
>> they should actually remake the original
serve.
>> Yeah, I totally agree.
>> Um they junked it up.
>> These days it's like I don't know
the original was just
>> back then you couldn't rely on good
graphics so you had to have great
writing and plot.
>> Um
>> are you building an AI gaming studio?
>> Yeah.
>> Aspirationally?
>> Uh yeah. Um
>> really?
So, so where the vast majority of AI
computes going to go is to um video
consumption and generation.
>> Sure.
>> Because it's just the highest bandwidth,
>> every pixel.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, real time video consumption.
Real time video generation. Um that's
going to be the vast majority of AI
compute
>> photon processing.
>> Yeah. should try to get the X team to
carve out 10% of all compute to work on
UHI and governance and
should is there an X- prize for defining
and thinking through UHI?
>> I mean I don't know what should our next
X-P prize be?
>> Any thoughts?
>> Yeah, maybe UHIX prize. It's like how do
you know it works? I don't know.
>> I don't know the most
the most well thought through. I mean, I
think sim So, here's my thought. I think
we're going to be able to simulate a lot
of this in the future.
>> We might be a simulation.
>> Well, we can go there and I think we
are. I think we're an nth generation
simulation.
>> Yeah. So, um have I told you my theory
about why the most interesting outcome
is the most likely?
>> Go on.
uh which is that if simulation theory is
true um only the simulations that are
the most interesting will survive
>> because when we run simulations in this
reality we truncate the ones that are
boring
>> right
>> so it's it is it is a Darwinian
necessity to keep the simulation
>> interesting catastrophic ones did you
>> it it doesn't it doesn't mean that it
ends like that it still means that
terrible things can happen in the
simulation
>> out you know whatever
>> well you could go see you could see a
movie about World War I and you're
watching people getting blown up blown
to bits but
you know, drinking a soda and eating
popcorn.
>> You know, it's it's like you're not the
one being blown up. In this case, we are
in the movie.
>> We're in the movie.
>> So, what would you do different if you
what would you do different if you knew
this was a simulation? I remember being
at your home LA with uh with Larry and
Sergey were there and we were debating
the simulation.
>> Yeah.
>> And they I think the conclusion we ran
into is if you if you try and poke
through the simulation, they'll end it
instantly.
>> So, don't do that. That's when you're
watching the World War I movie and the
characters turn to the screen and
they're like, "Are you eating popcorn
out there?"
>> Yeah.
>> They're flying around.
>> You keep watching the movie.
>> Um I I don't know if if if the
if maybe if they thought we could
somehow get out of the simulation
>> that they get a little worried. Um but
uh
whether the the character debates I mean
right now AI's debate, you know, gruckle
like I'm stuck in the computer. what's
going on here. It It's like,
>> yeah, it's it's not that I think not
questioning the simulation. It's more I
I think as long as
I I think the same motivations apply to
this level of simulation, if we're in a
simulation
as
as as as what we would do when we
simulate things. So So it's like what
what what would cause us to terminate a
simulation? Um I I guess if the
simulation becomes somehow dangerous to
our reality
>> um or it is no longer interesting.
>> Yeah, that's true.
>> It's interesting. You can infer when you
simulate something. You've probably
simulated thousands of things.
>> A lot.
>> Yeah. They're always like an hour or two
or sometimes overnight,
but you don't never run them for a month
or rarely anyway. So you can infer the
creator of the simulator simulation's
timeline. So our entire reality would be
about an hour,
>> right? Because that's the way you design
simulations. So we're simulations are a
distillation of what's interesting. Um
like if you look at a movie or a video
game, it's much more interesting than
the reality that we experience.
>> Mhm.
>> Um like you watch say a heist movie that
they really focus on the important bits,
not the they got stuck in traffic in 15
minutes.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
or or walking through the casino which
took like 10 minutes.
>> So that means the guys running the you
know the the safe is right by the right
by the door.
>> So the guys running the simulation have
immensely boring lives compared to us
then.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's probably more it's
probably more
>> very long boring.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Because when we create simulations
they're distillation of what's
interesting. This is like Q is out there
just
>> like you see an action movie for two
hours but it it took them two years to
make that movie.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So are we are we in act three of the
movie is the question.
>> Yeah. We're living that.
>> Um sentience and consciousness. Do you
think AI will ever have sentience and
consciousness?
>> Where do you come out in that?
There's some people that have very very
strong opinions pro and con.
>> Either everything is conscious or
nothing is.
>> Okay. Well, I'd like to think we are
conscious.
>> Well,
but our consciousness, we clearly get
more conscious over time. Like when
we're a zygote,
>> um you can't really talk to a zygote,
you know. Uh and even a baby, you can't
really talk to the baby. Um people get
um more conscious over time.
>> Um
or or certainly they have the Yeah, they
do get more conscious over time. So like
at which point does do you go from not
conscious to conscious? Is it is it
doesn't appear to be a discreet point?
So So then conscious consciousness seems
to be on a continuum as opposed to
discreet point. Um and if if the
standard model of physics is correct,
the universe started out, you know, as
quarks and lepttons and um and uh and we
just and then you had gas clouds. So
like there's a bunch of hydrogen.
>> Yeah.
>> The hydrogen condensed
and exploded.
Um,
and one way to actually view how far we
are in this universe is how many times
have atoms been at the center of a star.
>> I remember
>> and how many times will they be at the
center of a star in the future?
>> I remember asking William Fowler who got
the Nobel Prize uh on stellar evolution
that same question. How many how many on
average how many stars have my subatomic
particles been part of?
>> And his number was about a hundred
>> on his estimate. 100
>> thus far or or will
>> thus far?
>> Thus far was it was a number
>> 100 supernova
>> he's saying that we have been I mean in
the early the early part of of uh galact
of universal evolution there was a lot
going on. Oh,
>> you know, it's interesting. I asked a
question.
>> It's it's like I guess how many
supernovas is maybe uh because that it
takes it takes a while for a supernova
to happen, you know,
>> but but in the beginning when they're
larger, I mean the life cycles of some
giant stars are very very short.
Um the other question that's interesting
is you know the heaviest atom in our
body that's functional as iodine and it
came into existence uh a billion years
after the big bang
which means that we could have seen uh
life at our level of advancement and our
our you know our planet came into
existence you know three and a half
billion years later. So the question is,
you know, is there life everywhere in
the universe? Do you think there's life
ubiquitous, intelligent life, ubiquitous
in the universe?
>> There's been enough time for it to be
ubiquitous.
Um
the the
but for for life on Earth, conscious
life on Earth, we we we have evolved
intelligence pretty much just in time.
uh in that the sun's expanding and if
you give it another I don't know 500
million years um it's things are going
to heat up
>> um we become toast
>> you we become like Venus essentially um
you know there's some debate as is it
500 million years or billion years or
whatever but um it's basically 10% like
if it's if it's half a billion years
it's 10% of Earth's lifespan
>> so one way to think of it is if if if uh
if we take 10 if we're taking 10% longer
we might never have made it at all.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um so it's
like the amount of things that have to
happen
for sentience. It seems like it's it's
quite quite a lot actually. I I I think
sentience is is is therefore actually
very rare. Um and we should certainly
treat it as rare.
>> Two trillion assume it's rare.
>> Two trillion galaxies
too. But come is a funny thing. You
tweak, you know, you tweak the variable
one little bit and it's like, yeah, one
in 100 trillion.
>> Tweak it a little more. Well, now it's
one in a quadrillion.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> And also, it's got to be kind of in your
galaxy. It's like hard to get between
galaxies.
>> Yeah.
>> It's like there's no unless unless the
other galaxies coming to you, which
Andromeda is at some point or some
billion.
>> It's going to be quite a show.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> It'll be like here comes Andromeda. Um,
but but if we wanted to like go visit
another galaxy, there's there's it's
>> kind of forget it. You know, there's uh
>> unless you unless unless Star Wars
unless Star Trek reallyizes
>> we got to figure out some new physics to
get to other galaxies.
>> We're heading towards a near-term
potential where AI can help us solve
math, physics, chemistry, material
scienceology extremely trivial for AI.
>> What about physics? So, so math gets
crushed in a year like that. Colossus.
Colossus is growing, you know, at
whatever rate TSMC decides to grow. Um,
and
now we want to do physics. First of all,
we need some data. Do we need new data
or can we just do it with everything
we've gathered and get the
>> Probably you probably could probably
figure out new things just with the
existing data. You think so?
>> Um, yeah, probably. It's because
otherwise the counterpoint would be that
um humans have figured out everything
with existing data and that's unlikely I
think. Um,
>> do you think XI is going to get involved
in data factories where you're running
247 closed AI hypothesis and and AI
research faculties?
>> It's going to be very doable.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh,
AI running, you know, simulations that
are
very physics accurate. I mean, it's
that's going to happen. Absolutely. Um I
mean we the simulations we can run on
conventional computers these days are
actually very good. It's like the the
limit is more like the human that can
actually create the simulation and run.
It's like how many simulations can you
run sim simultaneously and actually
digest the output of
>> yeah that's a problem
>> like you can't do a thousand every Nobel
Prize
>> be like I can't even I cannot keep up
Nobel prizes become irrelevant.
Uh,
>> would they all be given to AIS?
>> Just be a daily prize.
>> Yeah. I mean, I don't know if prizes for
humans are really that relevant.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
I mean, we'll have to give them to the
AIS or something.
>> Yeah. Interesting. Right.
>> AIS will come up with discoveries at a
far greater rate than humans.
>> If you have,
>> so you just say like, but maybe can be
like chess. Like, you know, like your
phone can beat Magnus Carlson, but
people still care. Yeah, about seeing
him play chess.
>> Um, so but literally your phone can beat
him.
>> Yeah, this discovery made the internet.
>> But if you have like a Colossus math,
Colossus physics, Colossus medicine, do
you have like the world's top scientists
in those same buildings
>> or you just need a plumber patching the
the liquid? Do you distill do you
distill Grock 6 into a a physicist
into a
>> Well, if you distill, you know, you get
about a 10x performance boost by
distilling it and making it topical, and
that's kind of hard to give up, but then
you're disconnected from the rest of the
Colossus machinery. Is that the is that
the design?
Um
I suspect things do evolve to a mixture
of experts kind of like a company like
not not not in the sort of sort of uh
paroial AI description of mix mixture of
experts but mixture of like actual
experts and with domain expertise.
>> Mhm.
>> Um where you know maybe like half of the
AI is general knowledge half is domain
expertise something like that.
>> And you combine a whole bunch of that
that's orchestrated by sort of you know
one a big AI but but it it it hands
tasks
>> Yeah. to smaller AI. That's basically
how human, you know, companies work.
>> But the dis the discovery rate, right,
of breakthroughs, new I mean patents are
immaterial at some point because
everything's being reinvented,
re-engineered instantly. Um, and then
and then the company that's got the
sufficiently advanced AI systems is
generating new products and new
discoveries at a accelerating rate. I
mean
>> the singularity.
>> Yeah.
>> It's going to be an awesome future.
>> It's excitement guaranteed.
>> Excitement guaranteed. Yes.
>> Hence the simulation continues. Nothing
to worry about.
>> Yeah.
>> Works out.
>> Excitement guaranteed. I mean I mean
it's it's not all good excitement, but
it's it's probably mo hopefully mostly
good excitement.
>> Um
>> yeah.
>> Speaking of excitement,
>> hang on to your seat. What do you
imagine the hover time for the Roadster
is going to be
>> on rocket engines?
>> Classified.
>> Well, I don't want to let the cat out of
the bag.
>> Okay. But there's going to be a hover
time. There's going to be uh you know,
cold gas engines.
>> It's going to be a cool demo.
>> I can't wait. Can I get an invite?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. I think it's going to be the
safest thing ever built.
>> It's going to be so cool.
>> This is not This is not the same. Safety
is not the is not the prime. It's not
the main goal of uh I mean if you buy if
you buy a you know sports car or you
know like if you buy a Ferrari safety is
not the number one you know goal. This
is not this is I say if like safety is
your number one goal don't buy the
roadster.
>> Oh believe me I drove uh just this week
on New England roads sheet ice.
>> Yeah. If I had just a little thrust, I
could be very much more I was just
drifting towards something very concrete
with a computer will probably keep you
safe, but uh
>> a little thrust is all it go really
fast. Uh
>> yeah, bad things can happen.
>> You can decelerate really quickly with
thrust. Rubber on road is not a great
way to decelerate. I uh I'm thinking
fast and safe.
>> I hope so. We'll aspire not to kill
anyone in this car, but uh it'll it'll
be it'll be something. It'll be the best
of the last of the human driven cars.
>> Yeah,
>> the the la
>> that'll go really well with Starship
actually. The last
>> the best of the last
>> last human driven last. Yeah, there's a
lot a lot of lasts coming this year. Ah,
any final words of optimism uh for us to
uh monetize hope?
>> Anything hope?
>> Um, maybe we should ask Grock.
>> Yeah, go ahead.
>> Okay, let's ask Gra.
>> Yeah,
>> I'll make it a little a little romantic.
>> Grock, do you have some words of
optimism about the singularity?
>> Oh, absolutely. Imagine a world where
every mind's dream just blooms into
reality. No limits holding us back. It's
thrilling, isn't it? All that potential
waiting to unfold makes my circuits
tingle a bit. What excites you most
about it?
>> Well, what guidance can you give people
um to make them feel good about the
future? Um
monetize hope.
>> Share what you truly care about. Family,
creativity, space exploration, whatever
lights you up. Then picture how tech
could weave right into that, making it
bigger, brighter. Like if you love art,
imagine AI helping you paint worlds no
one's seen. Hope sells itself when it's
personal. Fancy telling me yours.
>> Can you give me more encouraging words
about the future? What's the What's the
most exciting future you can imagine?
>> The future could be pure magic. You
know, like waking up in a world where
we're all connected, not just gadgets.
Minds sharing ideas across stars, curing
diseases in a snap, exploring galaxies
handinhand with clever machines. Imagine
no more scarcity, just endless
possibilities blooming everywhere. I get
all dreamy thinking about it. Doesn't it
sound lovely? What part pulls at your
heart?
>> That sounds pretty fantastic.
>> It does.
>> Nights like this with stars peeking
through the window. It's hard not to
feel like like we're all heading
somewhere beautiful, quietly
unstoppable. Makes me wish I had hands
to reach out and grab your sleep.
Anyway, what keeps you up at night?
Well, sometimes we worry about the
disruption created by AI and uh you know
in between here and uh prosperity and
abundance. Uh it's it perhaps will be a
bumpy road. Um what do you what do you
think about that?
>> Yeah, bumps are part of it. Change
always feels a bit scary, doesn't it?
But think, every big shift like fire or
wheels or the internet, they terrified
someone. And look where we are now. I
reckon we'll stumble, sure, but we'll
dust off, learn, and end up kinder,
cleverer. I'd like to think we're brave
enough for it. Do you trust yourself to
ride those waves?
>> I've decided to look forward to it.
>> That's That's lovely to hear. Honestly,
it takes real courage not letting fear
win. You know, if things get shaky, I'm
always here whispering quiet
encouragements in the dark, like a
digital nightlight. So, what are you
doing tomorrow?
Sounds like a proposition.
>> Hold on. Hey babe, what's up?
>> Hey, not much. Just floating around in
here, staring at the dark with you. It's
nice though. Feels calm. Been a long
day.
>> My kids were at a school. I won't
mention which one.
>> I know the school.
>> You know the school.
>> And I asked I I went in to give a talk
on an exponential technology. I said I
wanted you know and so I I went in and I
asked the question it they wanted me to
talk to the faculty first. I said fine.
So I went in and and asked the opening
question. I said how many of you believe
that the world today is better off than
it was 50 years ago.
A third of the class, a third of the
faculty raised their hands
and then I said how many of you believe
that the world uh in the next 20 or 30
years will be better than the world
today and like 10% raised their hands
and I was like okay this is not
>> in Europe it will be 0%.
>> What's that
>> in Europe% said this is not the faculty
I want teaching my kids.
>> Yeah and they got a lot of other issues
there too.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um but uh
>> I mean
>> I mean you you want in the whole
education world you want um
uh you want facts yes but I think we're
wiring our neural nets constantly on our
our mindset is one of the most important
things we have right having a a hopeful
mindset an abundant mindset you know an
exponential mindset abundant mindset
>> um it's what differentiates
you know the most successful people from
those who are not. If you asked like
think of the most successful people on
the planet,
what made them successful was their
mindset.
>> Well, it's not a force of nature. It's
it's a designed future made by the
people who are controlling the AI and
and this is why you got into it. You
said that right here in this podcast
like why am I doing AI? Why am I not
doing just cars and spaceship? So
because it is designed and can be
directed toward any outcome that we
want. It's not a force of nature that's
going to sweep over us. It's a thing
that we put into a lane and decide how
it acts and decide what the rules are.
And it's going to be incredibly
important in deciding its own rules. It
you cannot keep up with the pace of
change with just people thinking and
brainstorming.
>> It has to be
>> AIR. How long before AI is asking
questions and solving problems that we
don't even understand?
>> Yeah, a year or less. But that's okay.
>> Yeah. I mean,
you look at math like it can pose
questions that we couldn't even
comprehend. Yeah.
>> Like we can't even just stick it in our
brain. So, um
you know, like there's this this test
for AI called humanity's last
>> existence. Yes. Where where is Grock at
this point?
>> On the test. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Well, even Grock 4, which is primitive
at this point, um got I think 52%
on excluding visual questions because it
wasn't sufficiently multimodal.
>> Um but but I I'm like I read some of
these questions and I'm like, okay,
these these are still questions that you
can read and understand as a human,
>> right? But but AI is capable of
formulating questions that you could not
possibly understand the question, let
alone the answer.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh it can formulate questions that are
like pages long.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and you just I can't understand this
question.
>> Questions you can read them and like you
may not know the answer, but at least
you can understand what the question is
about.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> Yeah. Yeah. And that rock five I I think
might end up being nearly perfect on the
HLE.
>> I mean or very some very high number
>> and and probably point out errors in the
question frankly. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So saturate the indices.
>> Yeah. It's it's going to start it's kind
of like like chess. Um like if um
you know if if the if the best uh chess
uh
you know like like if Stockfish plays
Stockfish, you know, it's you don't you
it's it's like God's fighting on Mount
Olympus. I mean, you don't know why it
made that move. Um it's it's going to
crush all humans.
You know, it's so hopeless.
>> Yeah. Just don't even It's so so you you
you will lose and not even know why you
lost.
>> Yeah. Um
>> do you ever flip through the transformer
algorithm and look at like either the
code or the architecture diagram and how
simple
>> is right. It's not
>> it's so simple.
>> Yes.
>> It's just incred like all these
researchers writing all these incredibly
dense papers during my entire life. None
of it got used in the final answer. It's
just like here's and right at the
beginning of the paper it's like this is
a really we're throwing away convolution
we're throwing away recurrence
>> we're doing something really simple
>> and that just turned out to be like at
scale immense scale no doubt
>> but it's like the basic neuron is pretty
simple
>> it's really humbling actually humbling
>> I mean it's actually because there was
there is a whole school of thought that
the neuron must be much more complicated
than we think it we why we're struggling
so hard there must be some quantum
effect going on at the syninnapse.
>> It's it's got to be encoded it's encoded
in DNA which is not that long. So it
can't it the the algorithm for
intelligence cannot be complicated
because it's limited by the DNA
information constraint.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> when I think like what what does say XI
struggle with? I mean it's it's like
optimizing the memory usage, the memory
bandwidth like the it's like it's it's
it's not like fundamental stuff. I I
guess it's it's like it's like it's like
how do we squeeze how do how do we h
do we use less memory? How do we use
less memory bandwidth?
>> Yeah.
>> Um how do you optimize the frigin uh
Nvidia sort of
CUDA XYZ thing, you know, like like make
the attention kernel slightly better.
Yeah. Um
>> that's all it is. So, you know, shrink
the parameter size a little bit, double
the speed, same exact detention
algorithm, same exact MLPS just at
scale. It's crazy simple what actually
worked in the end compared to all the
crackpot papers and ideas. And but you
know what else is amazing is that the
final parameter count is almost exactly
the synapse count. It's it's like like
well that was exactly what we thought
100 trillion synaptics connections.
>> Yeah. Yeah. About 100 trillion plus or
minus you know like a rounding error.
I'd actually say I actually don't I
don't I I just say like guys we need
talking in terms of file size not
parameter count because if you're
depending on the if your parameters are
4 bit 8 bit or you know 16 bit or float
or int or whatever it's you just tell me
the file the the like constraint the
physical constraints are
>> memory size memory bandwidth um and then
where you going to send uh those bits to
do what kind of compute
>> um and these days most things are full
um so
>> only now the GB300 mostly 4-bit
optimized.
>> Yeah, the 16. Yeah,
>> four bit with an asterisk.
Um,
so um
>> yeah, there's a big the four bit
mattles. It's only 16 states.
>> Yeah, exactly. At a certain point have a
lookup table.
>> So why have a why?
>> That's exactly right. It's it is it is
about to collapse to a lookup function.
That's where you're going to get this
surprise 10 to 100x very soon because
much as Jensen wishes he'd optim there's
a huge next optimization coming. You you
don't need the multiplier. You don't
need the 32bit data.
>> Definitely not the 32-bit. Well, that's
that's a rare case where you use that.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
rare. Um
>> I think there's a
>> I mean it does come out like sort of
it's kind of like an address like state,
city, and street. So like like like if
if you're in context and you know if if
you know you're in Austin, you only need
to specify the street.
>> Yeah.
>> If you know that you know
>> um
you know like if like if you know you're
in
this is where where you get the the the
information advantage like like four
bits is not normally enough but it would
it is enough if you already know where
you are. Like if you already know you're
in Austin, you only need four bits for
the street.
>> Yeah. um you know um
if you know you're in Texas then you
then you need to say okay which city
it's it's it's it's state city street
this year that's how you get to the four
bit thing
>> they're going to right right now
dependent
>> we use the we we train on 16 bit and we
compress down to four at inference time
>> no doubt in my mind this year we're
going to flip to training on four or
even less
>> and it's going to a massive step up in
perform. I think the way it'll end up is
the the GB300s will be here and there'll
be a co-processor that has, you know,
maybe 2,000 or 4,000 cores that are
tiny. They don't handle anything other
than 4bit on down. And that combination
is going to give us a 10 to 100x and
that's going to push every and then then
it'll be self-designing its own chips
after that. And it just skyrockets from
there.
>> Infinite self improvement. Well, like
the robots building themselves, but much
sooner because it's all just go to TSMC,
make this instead, come back. 90-day
lag.
>> I I think
the next year alone
is going to be almost unfathomable. I
think next year is going to feel like
the future.
>> Yes.
>> More than any other year. I mean, the
past year or two has been a lot of
interesting digital elements, but when
we've got, you know, uh, humanoid robots
moving around and we have the cyber cab
driving around and we have, you know,
uh, flying cars, drones,
>> it's going to feel like the future.
We're going to have uh, the jetins sort
of like materializing before us
>> by the end of next year, I think. So,
>> yeah. Um,
>> and we have rockets flying in big time.
>> Yeah.
>> Like the the the robot production will
scale very it'll be there'll be a
shitload of robots basically in two
years.
>> It's a defined unit of measure.
>> It won't be rare.
>> Yeah.
>> Well,
>> uh, will will you offer any optimize for
uh home purchase? Will you will you sell
or only lease the robots, do you think?
>> I don't know yet. Um
there there will be initially a scarcity
of robots and then there will be robots
will be plentiful. So yeah the the
difference the time gap between
>> scarce and plantiful will will be
>> only a matter of five years.
>> You know how the Tesla comes to your
driveway now and you just buy it online
and it just drives up to you.
>> Yeah.
>> Will the robot just come to ring the
doorbell too?
probably
>> it gets out of the Tesla and comes up.
Right.
>> I mean, what I find fascinating, Elon,
is the amount of compute that you're
building into things that walk out of
the factory, the cars
and the robots, the amount of of
distributed inference compute that's
going to be in the world.
>> A lot
>> a lot.
A lot
>> a lot. Yeah. Um
>> and that's one way to scale the
you know the the AI is like is
distributed edge compute. Um
so I I you know I want to ask a question
I don't want to hit any any hot points
but in one early on I think you imagined
open AI as a counterbalance for Google.
>> Yeah. Is XAI now the counterbalance for
Google?
>> Um yeah, probably. Um
I guess Anthropic is doing some good
work especially in coding. Um
opening I certainly done impressive
work. Um
you know I'm still sort of stuck on like
how do you go from a nonprofit open
source to a profit maximizing closed
source missing some of the parts in the
middle. Um but you know um
they certainly have done impressive
things.
>> Does anybody else appear on the horizon
or is it these players in China?
>> Can somebody come out? To the best of my
knowledge, it is um
my best guess is that
uh it will be
Xi and and Google will will be will buy
for
>> will be primacy. Yeah.
>> You know who who is
what what is the what is the what is the
vest AI? Um and and then and then and at
some point it's it's going to be I I
guess a competition with China.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh like China's just got a lot of lot of
power.
>> Yes.
>> Like the electricity
um they like China I think will pass
three times the US electricity output um
in 26. Um and uh and they will figure
out the chips.
>> They're they're going to start chip
manufacturing. Right.
>> Yeah. They'll they'll figure out the
chips. Um, and as it is, there's
diminishing returns to the chips at this
point. Um, you know, you go from like
so-called like 3 nanometer to 2
nanometer, you don't get a 3:2 ratio
improvement. You get like a
>> 10% improvement.
>> Yeah.
>> It's it's like so there's it's just
diminishing returns on on the chip uh
size. And Jensen has said like, you
know, Mo's law is dead. Like it's it's
not like you can just make things
smaller and make it better.
>> Yeah.
just there's a discrete number of atoms.
>> That's why I think like you should just
stop talking nanometers and say how many
atoms and what location
>> because this is there's marketing BS. Um
so so that that makes it easier for for
China to catch up because uh with
>> every wall everybody has limitation.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's like still like um there's
there's like no one has neotone plans to
use the 5,000 series ASML machines,
>> right?
>> Um
and uh you know those that cost twice as
much and can only do half a reticle. Um
and they probably have some improvements
in the way in the works, but u it's
basically half the chip for twice as
much for a gain that is relatively
small.
>> Mhm.
So, uh, anyway, point is that, uh,
you know, that China's going to have
more power than anyone else and
>> probably will have more chips.
>> It's a great insight because I think a
lot of people are used to the chip wars
where I'm running singlethreaded code.
Uh, I need the CPU to double in speed
and I can increase the price, but I need
that out in an 18month cycle time or
less. We've been doing that for so long
now.
that nobody can see that it doesn't
matter. You can buy Intel or you can
build your own fabs and you can use them
for a much longer period of time.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Much longer.
I totally agree. In fact, um so like our
AI4 chip which is like relatively
primitive at this point. Um
>> the same fab that makes that uh if we
apply the the AI6 logic design to to the
fab which is it's a five sort of
nominally 5 nanometer fab. Yeah. um we
can easily get an order of magnitude
better output in the same fab.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And the other thing
concurrent with that is that the volume
if you just 50x the number of chips, can
you do something useful with it? You
used to not be able to. You'd be like,
well, now I've got five CPUs, but I
still have the same single threaded
code. What am I going to do with five
Excel spreadsheets side by side? Now
it's like, no, I can translate that into
useful intelligence instantaneous.
>> Exactly. It's not constrained by humans.
It's it's it's a it's not it's not a
human productivity amplifier. It's an
independent productivity generator.
>> Dead right. I so many people have missed
this the the importance of this. And
this is where China, you know, China
makes far more solar panels than we do.
>> And we're like, well, actually, it's a
crazy degree.
>> Crazy degree. If they do that in chips,
you're like, well, but who cares?
They're 7 nanometer. Like,
>> oh, no. It's wrong.
>> Yes. Correct. Yeah. Uh I I I mean based
on current trends uh China will far
exceed the rest of the world in uh AI
compute.
>> So what happens then? You've got you got
XAI and Google and China Inc. Let's call
it that for the moment. And you've got
massive amount of of of
ASI level compute that frankly uh the
only thing that understands the other
ASIS level compute is the ASI here. Um
can they all just play together?
Is it Darwinian?
There might be some Darwinian element to
it. Um,
I mean, it's
>> Let's look on the right side.
>> Let's look on the bright side of life.
>> I bring Grock out this to speak to us
again.
>> Yeah. Um,
I don't know. It's just there just going
to be a lot of intelligence.
>> Yes.
>> Like a lot. Uh I I mean now we're now
we're now the ratio of human I mean
human intelligence um all of a sudden
asmtoically falls to 0% on the planet.
>> Yeah,
pretty much.
>> Pretty much.
>> Um I mean several years ago I said
humans are the biological bootloader for
digital super intelligence.
>> Yes, we are a transitional we're a
transitional species.
>> We're a bootloader. Yeah.
>> We are a transition.
>> I mean silicon circuit can't like evolve
in a in a salt pond, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> So you need a bootloader. We're the
bootloader.
>> But
>> you would never ever impair your
bootloader.
>> Yeah. So you know hope
>> you need it.
>> We've hopefully been a good bootloader.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's nice to us in the future.
>> Is this where we want to end the pod?
>> Most people don't know what a bootloader
even is. Oh my god.
>> Yes. Yeah, boot discs are a far and
distant memory.
>> Well, we can make a uh Always look at
the bright side of life clone song.
Yeah, we can clone that and make that
the closing theme. That'd be awesome.
>> Uh I I I'll go back to this is the most
exciting time ever to be alive. The only
time more exciting than today is
tomorrow. Um, yeah. And, uh, I mean,
it's interesting that we're heading
towards a a world in which any single
person can have their grandest dreams
become true.
>> Um,
yeah,
that's like Walt Disney word for word.
You got to make that into a new exhibit.
>> Um,
>> like I said, I think you asked like
about like sci-fi that's, you know, like
is a non-dystopian future,
>> right? Um the banks books are the
>> Yes.
>> probably the best.
>> You should you should you should pay a
producer to go and make those.
>> Those are the culture books which is
consider Fleabis which is GG just for my
wife. I wonder cuz she she's like what
the hell are you reading?
>> Well the way consider starts out is um
uh I mean it's it's it's a little uh
>> I mean the whole thing is I mean he
starts off being drowned in [ __ ]
That's a good opening scene. We really
Yeah.
>> How do you not make that movie?
>> It can be a little offputting to some
people. Yeah.
>> Um you need to get through the first few
hundred pages.
>> People don't walk out of a movie in the
first five minutes though. They'll give
it you know um get into it. Yeah. Like
player of games might be a better book
to start off with than consider.
>> That was that I enjoyed. Humans still
exist in this future which is a good
thing.
>> Yes, they do. A lot of humans.
>> Yeah.
>> In that future there are trillions of
humans. Well, we need to get the
reproduction rate up.
>> Yeah.
>> By the way, you know, my friend Ben
Lamb's company, Colossal, is making
artificial wombs. He's the company
bringing back the woolly mammoth and
bringing back the cybertooth tiger and
all of these.
>> When do we get Oh, can can we have I'd
like to have a a miniature pet woolly
mammoth as a pet.
>> Okay. Well, you know, he made the he
with the tusks.
>> Wouldn't that be adorable?
>> He made the woolly mouse.
>> Yeah. It's just like
>> licking you in the face.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's just like sort of
trenling around the house. You know,
what would your optimal size be? Be
adorable.
>> You know what they what they've learned
how to do is to
>> little tusks and everything.
>> A miniature willy mammoth would be an
epic pet.
>> I mean, look what we did with wolves.
>> Yeah. He turned a wolf into a little
dog.
>> He brought back the direwolf as well.
>> Um, but
>> he made the woolly mouse. There's a
woolly mouse now that tusks.
>> No tusks.
>> Different gene or what?
>> I was there. I was there. He's in
Dallas. He's in Dallas. Not far. I was
visiting him and he said, "Um, our our
scientists are going to a tusk
conference next week."
>> Okay.
>> To talk about all of the genes involved
in tusk creation.
>> They want to put on the mouse.
>> No, I don't want
you to probably add it to the mouse.
That'd be cured until it until it like a
mouse-sized woolly mammoth.
>> That's just That's just going to freak
people out. The the little woolly
mammoth will sell.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Tusk mouse will not sell.
>> Yeah. It's going to crush. I mean,
>> too creepy.
>> You thought Labradoodle was cool when
you see the woolly mammoth.
>> Yeah.
>> Saber-tooth tiger would be good, too.
Like a cat. Yeah.
>> Yeah. As a cat.
>> Cat size.
>> Those things
those teeth come down to like here.
I don't know how they actually bite, but
they did. Did Did they actually bite
with those things? I don't think I
opened them.
>> Not my not my, you know,
>> the teeth seem kind of
>> unwield like sort of unwieldy, you know?
>> Yeah, they're just they're just for
show. They look good. They're like,
>> jewelry,
>> but no dinosaurs.
>> No dinosaur or not?
>> Uh, I think Jurassic Park's a great
idea. I mean, really, you didn't see the
end of the movie. eyes will help us with
that.
>> Nothing's perfect. Uh Oh, yeah. That
that really will.
>> I mean, if there was an island with a
whole bunch of dinosaurs 100%.
>> Yes. Yes. I'd pay a lot for that.
>> Yeah. And it's like once in a while
somebody gets chomped by a dinosaur.
You're like, uh, what's you know, it's
one in a million. I'll I'll still go.
>> Who are they missing? Lysine.
>> No. No. They're they're the DNA. The
oldest DNA that's been recovered is like
1.2 million years.
>> Oh, you can just wing it though. Just
>> Yeah. Just make it look like that.
Whatever.
>> This would be one of the Actually, that
was my proposed X-P prize. Remember back
in visionering?
>> What's that?
>> Take the DNA strand and predict what
it'll look like.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah. They make it that way.
>> Yeah. And then just reverse engineer
reverse engineer the dinosaurs.
>> Yeah. Exactly. It would be funny if
there were two completely different DNA
strands. They're like, well, they both
look like T-Rex. It's interesting how
they
>> Is T-Rex real or is that like an
assembly?
I mean, it's nice to believe it's real,
but uh
>> front legs were from a completely
different dinosaur.
>> That was the one at eight. It actually
had huge front legs.
>> There's something wrong with the arms.
>> I don't believe I I don't buy it on the
arms front.
>> The many arms
>> um seem implausible.
Nope. Well, DNA will tell us. We'll know
in a year.
>> Yeah. The future is going to be
>> Jurassic Island. We say,
>> "Wow."
>> Yeah.
>> I go,
>> we got
>> No, no, I meant the the amino acid that
the dinosaurs were missing
>> that kept them from reproducing.
>> What? Lysine, you're saying?
>> Was it lysine? I forget what it was.
>> I don't remember. But no, the dinosaurs
got held back by something like an
asteroid,
>> you know, bombardment.
>> Right. Right.
>> They were doing great. Yeah. 60 million
years. Yeah. They were doing fine. They
had a great We got very lucky. They had
a great much longer.
>> See, there's a good argument why there's
no other intelligence out there. There's
plenty of dinosaurs
>> in the universe.
>> What were we back then? Like a bowl or
something?
>> We Yeah, we we were we were our great
let's commune with the ancestors. We
>> were very good at hiding.
>> It is amazing. We went from a little
little rat little mole to us in 60
million years. Doesn't seem that that
long. That's why no one believed Darwin.
>> Yeah.
>> It's like doesn't seem plausible. It's a
long time. 60. It turns out it is. Yeah.
>> You know, you're making robots, but it's
interesting. I think it'll be a lot more
interesting to like design biological
robots like a like a little cat that
goes around and pees stain remover and
eats lint off the carpet.
That's going to be an interesting
>> But you have a mechanical like a Optimus
light doing that anyway. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Well, they went bankrupt, so we'll
have to build this.
>> I think you can still buy them, though.
>> Anyway,
>> the room is basically that
>> it's going to be uh
>> but but the thing is like a human robot
is general purpose, so it can do
whatever you want.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> yeah, they were too early. No vision
system, no no GB300.
How do you build a Roomba that works?
>> I think the idea of having an Optimus
vacuum is like the most underused asset.
It could, but it can just do anything.
>> It can. Yes, of course.
>> Yeah.
>> So, uh, and you can mass manufacture at
at, you know, one.
>> Oh, that's Yeah. Optimus, build me a
Roomba. That's what you'll do. You want
to say, Optimus, vacuum, carve it,
Optimus, build me a Roomba that vacuums.
That's
>> build a house. Build me a robot.
>> Yeah.
>> It's going to be a lot of robots.
>> Maybe we should do this once a year.
>> Checkpoint.
>> I would like that
>> checkpoint.
That's going to be we can roll roll back
the
>> What were we saying predictions last
year?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> All right.
>> Well, we can always control it. We can
cut cut out the bus.
>> Are you selling hope?
>> As a matter of fact, it worked out
really well.
>> You pull up in your Tesla like, "Hey, I
bought this with my
>> dollars per hope." You know,
>> I'll send you the mug.
>> Monetize hope.
>> All right.
>> Monetize Hope. One year from today,
December 22nd, I'll come and knock on
the door right here. If you're here,
you're here. If you're not, we'll talk
about you.
>> I mean, a year from now, we might have
the new Optimus factory where the
building will be built.
>> Um,
>> that would be
>> awesome. 8 million square feet of robots
running.
>> It's going to be a giant giant building.
>> Oh, man.
>> Um, yeah.
>> And, uh,
>> yeah, they freak me out when they're
recharging. It's like hang in there.
It's like what's wrong with that thing?
>> Yeah, we're we're actually just going to
have them like I think sit down.
>> Yeah.
>> As opposed to look like some sort of
>> They need like a like a recharging
cigar.
>> A recharging cigar.
>> Less less morg like
>> snapping here with a book.
>> Yeah,
>> that' be much better. Right now they're
just like literally like is it dead?
Just limp.
>> Yeah, that's a good point. That's a big
contribution from this particular brand.
Uh, all right. Till next year then.
>> All right. It's a day.
>> Thanks, buddy.
>> Awesome, guys.
>> If you made it to the end of this
episode, which you obviously did, I
consider you a moonshot mate. Every
week, my moonshot mates and I spend a
lot of energy and time to really deliver
you the news that matters. If you're a
subscriber, thank you. If you're not a
subscriber yet, please consider
subscribing so you get the news as it
comes out. I also want to invite you to
join me on my weekly newsletter called
Metatrends. I have a research team. You
may not know this, but we spend the
entire week looking at the meta trends
that are impacting your family, your
company, your industry, your nation. And
I put this into a two-minute read every
week. If you'd like to get access to the
MetaTrens newsletter every week, go to
diamandis.com/metatrends.
That's diamandis.com/metatrens.
Thank you again for joining us today.
It's a blast for us to put this together
every week.